https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/2/21161780/art-club
Valve shows off how you’ll fight and move in Half-Life: Alyx - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Valve shows off how you’ll fight and move in Half-Life: Alyx New, 23 comments Grab buckets, poke headcrabs By Adi Robertson@thedextriarchy Mar 2, 2020, 3:16pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Valve shows off how you’ll fight and move in Half-Life: Alyx Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Valve’s much-anticipated virtual reality game Half-Life: Alyx debuts on March 23rd, and it just offered a little more detail on what we’ll be playing. It released three short videos today showing off combat and puzzles in Alyx, as well as the game’s overall vibe. The videos showcase some things we already knew about Alyx. First, much of the game is about semi-realistic gunfights, including manually reloading while being mobbed by enemies. Second, there are a lot of hand-based interactions — in the demo videos, we see Alyx Vance tip over buckets to search for items, grab grenades from midair, pull boards off a barred door, and flip a dead headcrab with the tip of her pistol. Valve has said its Index controllers will provide extra interaction options, but we don’t get any detail on that here. And third, Alyx Vance isn’t a Gordon Freeman-style silent protagonist. Alyx spent Half-Life 2 performing one-sided banter, but as a playable character, she’s more than ready to chat with other characters and occasionally muse to herself. Half-Life: Alyx incorporates some familiar VR and shooter mechanics. As an IGN hands-on video shows, you can switch between teleportation-style locomotion and free directional movement — and if you choose the former, you can strategically pop behind enemies or cover during fights. You can also apparently collect an upgrade material called “resin” and add new features to your gun, adding a level of customization that the Half-Life series has mostly eschewed. The gameplay videos mostly show off familiar elements of the Half-Life world. They feature classic enemies like headcrabs, Combine soldiers, and barnacles. And they confirm that Alyx will still use Half-Life’s old-school health stations and medkits, offering a nod toward explaining them within the game’s fiction. This all makes sense, since Alyx is set before Half-Life 2 and its sequel episodes — although Valve has also suggested it could help resolve lingering questions from those games. Half-Life: Alyx will be VR-only but playable on any PC-based headset. For anyone who’s just getting into VR, though, options are currently limited. Valve is still trying to restock its Index headsets, and Oculus Quest is heavily backordered, in part due to coronavirus-related delays. In This Stream Half-Life: Alyx: everything you need to know about Valve’s return to Half-Life Half-Life: Alyx gives us a big hint about Gordon Freeman’s future Valve shows off how you’ll fight and move in Half-Life: Alyx Half-Life: Alyx will launch on March 23rd View all 17 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook