https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21054353/samsung-ballie-robot-ai-assistant-ces-2020
Samsung’s new Ballie robot is like a real-life mini BB-8 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Samsung Samsung’s new Ballie robot is like a real-life mini BB-8 New, 30 comments It’s kind of cute, actually By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 6, 2020, 10:02pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s new Ballie robot is like a real-life mini BB-8 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Today, at Samsung’s keynote at CES, Samsung introduced Ballie, a small ball-shaped robot intended to help you around the house. Samsung says Ballie utilizes AI to be a security robot, a fitness assistant, a tool to help seniors connect with smart devices in their homes, and it can even be a friend to your kids and pets. In an onstage demo, Ballie followed Samsung consumer electronics division CEO H.S. Kim on the stage by rolling around, seemingly by using the camera to track Kim as he walked across the stage. Ballie also gave cute little robotic chimes in response to a couple of commands from Kim, and it even rolled right into Kim’s hands when he called for it. Meet #Ballie, Samsung’s human-centric vision of robots that takes personalized care to the next level. The small rolling robot, “understands you, supports you, and reacts to your needs.” #CES2020 #SamsungCES2020 pic.twitter.com/YzwgZN1Lgw — Samsung US Newsroom (@SamsungNewsUS) January 7, 2020 Rolling around and following people seems to be all that Ballie can do at the moment. But in a promotional video aired shortly after the demo, Samsung showed a bigger vision for Ballie that could someday make it more of an at-home assistant. Ballie opened the blinds in its owner’s home, turned on the TV so that the house’s dog could have something to watch, and summoned a Roomba-like vacuum to help clean up a mess. Samsung isn’t the first to make robots billed as at-home companions. Sony, for example, recently released APIs for Aibo, its robot dog, that will apparently let you make services and applications for Aibo that let it interact with smart home devices. Below is a concept video of what might be possible with those APIs. Some of the scenarios shown are quite similar to what Samsung is proposing with Ballie. There’s also a chance that Samsung may run into some of the issues other companies have faced when trying to sell commercial robots. Remember Sphero, the company that actually sold a BB-8-like robot? The company just didn’t sell enough toy robots, forcing it to stop making licensed robots in December 2018 and pivot to making robots for education. Toy robot company Anki shut down in April last year after running out of money, and just yesterday, it was announced that Anki’s assets were bought by an ed-tech firm, meaning that Anki’s Vector robot will live on. And don’t forget about Rolly, Sony’s ridiculous-looking “sound entertainment player” robot that cost $400 when it came out in 2007 and could only get music loaded onto it with Sony’s proprietary Sonic Stage application. Samsung didn’t share any information about when Ballie might come out or how much it might cost when it’s available, so it’s hard to know if we can ever get the chance to see if it will live up to Samsung’s bold vision that it presented at CES. But for now, it at least looks like a cute little robot that could be a companion around the house — that is, if it’s something you’ll actually be able to buy. Related With new APIs, Sony’s robot dog could be the smart home assistant you’ve always wanted Sphero discontinues its BB-8, R2-D2, and other licensed Disney products Robot toy company Anki is going out of business Anki’s toy robots are being saved from a digital death Tokyo Thrift: the Sony Rolly was peak Sony In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Samsung’s new Ballie robot is like a real-life mini BB-8 Wemo’s new WiFi Smart Plug gets an even tinier redesign View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook