https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/10/21131332/motorola-razr-gold-color-verizon-launch-release
Motorola confirms a gold-colored Razr is coming this spring - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Motorola Motorola confirms a gold-colored Razr is coming this spring New, 1 comment Initial reviews of the Razr have not been very positive By Ashley Carman@ashleyrcarman Feb 10, 2020, 10:52am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Motorola confirms a gold-colored Razr is coming this spring Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Motorola Motorola confirmed today that its much-hyped folding Razr is going to come in a second color: blush gold. The option will be available this spring. The color previously leaked last week, so we had a hunch that it might be coming. The Razr is currently only available in black on Verizon for $1,499, with new orders delivering by March 3rd. Motorola hasn’t said how much the gold version will cost, but it’s unlikely to tack on an added premium over the black option. Presumably, the gold model will feature the same specs as the standard “Noir Black” Razr, which includes a midrange Snapdragon 710 processor. The phone’s 6.2-inch foldable plastic OLED panel is prone to developing “bumps and lumps,” Motorola has said. The company has pushed back against concerns about its long-term durability, however. Initial reviews of the Razr have skewed negative, with screen issues and poor camera performance raised by both Android Central and Input. Perhaps Motorola is announcing a new color to offset that bad press a bit. Stay tuned for The Verge’s review of the new Razr. I was unsuccessful in buying a Razr but I do have a review unit. Been using for for awhile and am shooting the video review today. What do you want to know? I’ll try to address in the review :) — Dieter Bohn (@backlon) February 10, 2020 Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook