https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/2/21046395/processor-newsletter-tech-computers-gadgets-software-dieter-bohn-consumer
Announcing Processor, a newsletter about consumer tech by Dieter Bohn - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Processor Newsletter Welcome to Processor, a newsletter about consumer tech by Dieter Bohn New, 20 comments A daily email with The Verge’s biggest stories and smart commentary By Dieter Bohn@backlon Jan 2, 2020, 10:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Welcome to Processor, a newsletter about consumer tech by Dieter Bohn Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Hello and well met! You’re reading the first newsletter we’re calling Processor. It’s a newsletter about “computers,” but I am using that term in a winky way. What I mean is consumer technology: gadgets, tablets, computers, phones, software, and the companies that make the products we use every day. So Processor is about the computers that are all around us — on your wrist, on your wall, and yes, on your lap, too. Every day, I’ll be rounding up the most important tech stories from The Verge and delivering them to your inbox with short commentaries and the occasional editorial essay. You can find an archive of previous newsletters here if you’re looking for examples of what I mean. That archive exists, by the way, because this newsletter has, until now, been called Command Line. If you’re already subscribed to that, Processor is the same thing. This newsletter’s goal will be to catch you up quickly on the biggest news in consumer tech and also to give you sharp, pithy commentary on it. You’re reading Processor, a newsletter about computers by Dieter Bohn. Dieter writes about consumer tech, software, and the most important news of the day from The Verge. This newsletter delivers “mostly daily,” which nets out three to four times a week, some of which include longer columns. You can subscribe to Processor and learn more about it here. Processor is also a YouTube series with the same goal: providing smart and surprising analysis with a bit of humor. Subscribe to all of The Verge’s great videos here! Subscribe By subscribing, you are agreeing to receive a daily newsletter from The Verge that highlights top stories of the day, as well as occasional messages from sponsors and / or partners of The Verge. Every few years, we sort of rediscover gadget blogging, and this newsletter is the latest version of that. Of course, you can never really go back to an earlier age of media. But I intend to be a little looser, more casual, and hopefully sometimes manage to pull off a joke or two. Ever since I’ve taken over this thing, I’ve said that I have enjoyed “tweeting” into the newsletter more than I have into Twitter. I’m doing a little more than that, of course, if only because this platform isn’t limited to 240 characters. I’ll provide fuller editorial essays twice a week or so that have deeper editorial analysis. For the most part, though, this newsletter will be a place where you can catch up on stories without having to mess with Twitter, Facebook, RSS, or whatever else you’re using to get the news. Instead of being curated by an algorithm, it’ll be curated by me. I hope you’ll consider subscribing — and if you already have, thank you. The best part about writing this newsletter under the Command Line name over the past few months has been the emails I’ve gotten back from readers. I want more of them. So along with this Processor rebrand, I’m setting the email to come directly from me. Related Here’s what’s next for gadgets in 2020 If you’ve heard of Processor, you probably know it as a show on YouTube that I also host. That’s not going away, and you can subscribe to get all of The Verge’s excellent videos on YouTube here. Processor by Dieter Bohn A newsletter about computers, gadgets, software, and the future of consumer tech. Subscribe! Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook