https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/14/21138432/blizzard-overwatch-league-games-china-korea-coronavirus-esports
Blizzard moves previously canceled Overwatch League games from China to Korea - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Esports Blizzard moves previously canceled Overwatch League games from China to Korea The matches were rescheduled due to coronavirus concerns By Andrew Webster Feb 14, 2020, 5:58pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Blizzard moves previously canceled Overwatch League games from China to Korea Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: Stewart Volland / Blizzard Entertainment Last month, Blizzard announced that all of its scheduled Overwatch League games in China during February and March were canceled in the wake of the coronavirus. Now the publisher has revealed its plan to reschedule the games — and it involves moving them out of the country altogether. According to Blizzard, all of the canceled matches — which were set to take place in Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Hangzhou — will now take place in a studio in Seoul. The matches will be played during the sixth and seventh weeks of OWL, which take place on the weekends of March 14th and March 21st. Previously scheduled games in Miami and Atlanta that were set to take place those weekends will be unaffected, according to Blizzard. Specific match times are expected to be announced “soon.” Photo by Bryan Bedder/Getty Images for Blizzard Entertainment “It’s been three years in the making.” — Blizzard’s Jon Spector on the 2020 Overwatch League season (Seoul will also be home to OWL games on the weekend of March 7th, when the Seoul Dynasty host matches at the Dongdaemun Design Plaza.) The Overwatch League is far from the only esports league impacted by the fallout of the coronavirus. The League of Legends Pro League in China has postponed matches indefinitely, while League of Legends Champions Korea is currently playing games without spectators present for safety reasons. Similarly, a PUBG tournament in Berlin scheduled for April has been postponed with no makeup date announced. OWL kicked off its third season on February 8th with games in New York and Dallas. This season is particularly important for the league as it represents a move toward a city-based structure, with matches hosted by teams around the world. Week two starts on February 15th with matches hosted by the Philadelphia Fusion. Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China All the ways China’s coronavirus outbreak is affecting tech In This Stream Overwatch League: all of the news about Blizzard’s ambitious e-sports league Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online-only games Blizzard moves previously canceled Overwatch League games from China to Korea The Overwatch League’s new season means travel, YouTube, and a constantly changing game View all 39 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook