https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/16/21069082/overwatch-league-2020-jerseys-new-jeff-staple
The Overwatch League’s new jerseys are sick - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Design Entertainment The Overwatch League’s new jerseys are sick New, 11 comments Designed by Jeff Staple By Andrew Webster Jan 16, 2020, 1:49pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The Overwatch League’s new jerseys are sick Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email There are a lot of questions going into the third season of the Overwatch League, which kicks off next month. How will players cope with traveling around the world? Will teams be able to stage events as slick as Blizzard managed in Los Angeles? What’s going on with the exodus of broadcast talent? Will the San Francisco Shock be able to repeat their incredible 2019 run? One thing that isn’t up for debate, though: the league’s new jerseys are sick. Today OWL unveiled its new line of kits, which were created by notable streetwear designer Jeff Staple. According to the league, the designer worked closely with players to make gear that didn’t just look great, but made sense to wear onstage. Here’s how they describe the process: Staple worked with Overwatch League players throughout the design process to ensure the kits are a comfortable, functional uniform for competition, while also maintaining Staple’s signature aesthetic. The new kits utilize elevated pin-dot mesh fabric to create lightweight and breathable jerseys to balance and regulate players’ temperature for maximum comfort. The full kit will include a short-sleeve jersey, long-sleeve jersey, jacket, compression sleeve, hat, and beanie for each of the league’s 20 teams. It’s a big change for the league, which featured fairly bland kits during its first two years of existence, with each team utilizing an identical template, with the exception of a few alternate jerseys. “It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to bring the best of the e-sports and streetwear worlds together to create something totally unique and ground-breaking,” Staple said in a statement. “The kits are not only specifically engineered to perform to players’ specifications, but they’re also designed to look great outside the arena.” Related How 100 Thieves became the Supreme of e-sports This teen Overwatch pro just had one of the best seasons in e-sports history While e-sports isn’t necessarily known as a fashion-forward space, that’s slowly changing. Nike partnered with the League of Legends Pro League in China to design each club’s jersey, and just yesterday the brand teamed up with iconic Korean team T1 — home of legendary player Lee “Faker” Sang-hyeok — to do the same. Meanwhile, individual teams like 100 Thieves and Faze Clan have become a mix of streetwear brands and e-sports organizations. (In fact, 100 Thieves just unveiled its own 2020 jerseys yesterday.) You can preorder the new OWL gear on January 28th; meanwhile, the league’s third season kicks off on February 8th in New York. In This Stream Overwatch League: all of the news about Blizzard’s ambitious e-sports league Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online-only games The Overwatch League’s new jerseys are sick This teen Overwatch pro just had one of the best seasons in e-sports history View all 39 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook