https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21048530/yummly-whirlpool-wireless-smart-meat-thermometer-oven-cooking
This smart thermometer can automatically adjust a Whirlpool oven’s temperature  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News This thermometer is smart enough to automatically adjust a Whirlpool oven’s temperature It also sends real-time updates to your phone By Aliya Chaudhry Jan 5, 2020, 1:59pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: This thermometer is smart enough to automatically adjust a Whirlpool oven’s temperature Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Yummly Smart Thermometer Image: Whirlpool This new smart thermometer is completely wire-free — so you won’t have to deal with any cords coming out of your oven door. And, it’ll eventually be able to adjust an oven’s temperature automatically. Digital recipe platform Yummly has announced its wireless smart meat thermometer, which will be available early this year; it is expected to sell for $129. The smart thermometer consists of a probe and a dock, which communicate to each other and to the Yummly mobile app via Bluetooth. The probe has sensors on either end for monitoring the temperature of the food and the temperature inside the oven. You can set the cooking temperature, the type of meat, and how well you want it cooked through the app, and then the app will alert you when the food is ready. It’ll also let you know how much time is left until your food is done, and will adjust that time if you change the temperature or open the oven door. The dock, which is placed next to the oven, has a range of 150 feet, so the app can send you alerts even if you’re in another room. The dock is battery powered, and is also used for charging the probe. Later this year, Whirlpool, Yummly’s parent company, plans on integrating the smart thermometer with select Whirlpool ovens and recipes on the Yummly app. This means that the oven will automatically adjust its temperature and cooking style (such as bake or broil) according to the recipe. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns This thermometer is smart enough to automatically adjust a Whirlpool oven’s temperature Vizio’s 2020 lineup includes its biggest TV yet and first-ever OLED View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook