https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/12/21175214/adjustable-laptop-table-laptop-stand-strategist
My favorite adjustable tables for working from home - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: From the Strategist Reviews Tech My favorite adjustable tables for working from home From our friends at The Strategist, how a laptop desk helped change a writer’s quality of life By Liz Carey Mar 12, 2020, 9:00am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: My favorite adjustable tables for working from home Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The author, in her home office, hard at work using her tray. Photo: Courtesy of Liz Carey This story is part of a group of stories called The Verge is sharing our favorite recommendations for everyday things from our friends at the Strategist. Part of The Verge Guide to Working at Home Over the course of my career as a writer, I have probably spent the cost of my son’s future college tuition to have physical therapists, chiropractors, acupuncturists, and crystal healers (sorry, I live in LA) all tell me a version of the same thing: “You sit wrong while you work.” My job is a literal pain in the neck — and frankly, my top left shoulder, too. When I am on a job that expects me to work outside of my bedroom (which is where I work from home), I can find a little relief from the fancy standing desks that lots of writers’ rooms are furnished with. But I work from home a lot, and a standing desk would never work for me at home, because they tend to be quite large. They can also be very expensive and, to be honest: I hate standing. (I hail from the Midwest, where, at least in my experience, the feeling is pretty much mutual). Having ruled out a standing desk, I began to search for some sort of alternative that would allow me to follow another piece of advice that all these specialists agreed upon: any desk I use should allow me to rest my elbows on it while I tap away, to help take the tension out of my neck and shoulders. Armed with this wisdom, I headed over to my (retail) therapist — Amazon — where Avantree’s adjustable laptop table caught my eye. Not only did it look like something that could help lift up my laptop so that it’s level with my gaze (eliminating the need to tilt my head down), but unlike other (more expensive) laptop stands, it also appeared to have enough space for elbow-resting. At less than $50, it is also half the cost of one hot stone massage. “Worth a try,” I thought. The table comes in three sizes. I went for the medium size, which has a tabletop that’s 21 x 12 inches and can be raised between 9.4–12.6 inches. (The smaller one has the same size tabletop and can be raised between 8.3–9.8 inches; the larger one a bigger tabletop of 24 x 13 inches and can be raised between 9.4–12.6 inches — thank God I took math.) The tabletop can be tilted, and you adjust its height via two buttons on either of its legs. If I put it on top of the regular desk I work from in my bedroom, the setup affords me enough height that you could call it a makeshift standing desk. But since I hate to stand, I will just mess with the table’s height until it’s ideal for my neck and elbows while seated. Or the tray table and I will shimmy off to bed, where I can get really comfortable with it — perched on my mattress, the table stands tall enough that I can extend my legs beneath it or sit cross-legged. And no matter where I put it, the thing is sturdy enough to support both my MacBook Air or MacBook Pro, a small bowl of chips, and a margarita. (I am sure it would just as easily accommodate a green juice and a bowl of raw almonds, I just don’t keep either in the house.) Avantree adjustable laptop table After I started using the table, I noticed that I could work for hours without having to lie on a tennis ball and that I no longer needed to hang my head upside down off my bed every hour. (As kooky as these things sound, both were recommendations from my chiropractor for alleviating tension.) And my table TED Talk is not over yet, people. Another plus is that the table is collapsible, making it easy to bring along if I want use it outside of my home. And when I am not using it to write, I use it for my son when he’s home sick in bed, as sort of a hospital tray. It has a detachable lip designed to stop your laptop from slipping off, which we have found to be just as capable at stopping a bowl of Froot Loops from sliding onto clean sheets. Do you know how long it takes to change a duvet cover? Avantree adjustable laptop table Strategist-approved laptop stands $40 on Amazon More Strategist-approved laptop stands The Roost Laptop Stand According to Great Jones co-founder (and former Grub Street editor) Sierra Tishgart, “the ultimate status symbol at The Wing, a women’s social club and co-working space in New York,” is this “ergonomic laptop stand.” She adds: “The Roost is an adjustable, portable stand that raises your computer 6 to 12 inches. It puts you at eye level with your laptop, relieving the strain on your neck and making you less of a hunchback.” The Roost Laptop Stand More Strategist-approved laptop stands $75 on Amazon Executive Office Solutions portable adjustable aluminum laptop desk When we asked chiropractors and physical therapists to recommend laptop stands, chiropractic sports physician Dr. Caleb Ridgway pointed us to this less expensive Roost-esque model. “It is adjustable, lightweight, and has CPU fans to prevent overheating,” he told us, noting that “it’s important to find a laptop stand that is sturdy, adjustable, and allows you to easily manipulate the height so you can seamlessly transition from a sitting to a standing position and vice versa.” Executive Office Solutions portable adjustable aluminum laptop desk More Strategist-approved laptop stands $39 on Amazon Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. The Verge Guide to Working at Home Tech strategies 7 How to work from home How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi How to choose a free videoconference app The do’s and don’ts of video conferencing How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference How to find keyboard shortcuts for Zoom How to help your remote workers feel involved Staying sane 7 How to use Netflix Party to stream movies with your friends How to watch movies with friends online Here’s a list of games you should play while you’re stuck inside avoiding the coronavirus The best movies and TV shows to stream when you’re working remotely How social networks can do good while we’re all trapped indoors Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home How to order takeout safely and ethically Furniture and gadgets 2 The best laptop you can buy right now The best wireless headphones to buy right now Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook