https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051516/lg-new-oled-4k-8k-tv-gx-cx-bx-ces-2020
LG’s 2020 OLED TV lineup includes a smaller 48-inch size - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News LG LG’s 2020 OLED TV lineup includes a smaller 48-inch size New, 22 comments The new luxury model borrows inspiration from Samsung By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 6, 2020, 11:30am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG’s 2020 OLED TV lineup includes a smaller 48-inch size Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: LG It was always going to be hard to follow up on a TV that can roll up when it’s not being used, and so LG has come to CES 2020 with a new lineup that prioritizes elegance and thinness over bending screens. The company is launching new “Gallery Series” OLEDs that hang flush against the wall (thanks to a new custom mount) and can double as both a TV and “a piece of art.” The Gallery Series will be released in 55, 65, and 77-inch sizes, and LG says the 65-inch model measures just 20mm (0.787 inches) thin. If it sounds a bit similar to LG’s wallpaper OLED, it is — but this time there’s no separate box housing all the key electronics and ports. It’s all built right into the TV itself. Image: LG This TV-as-art approach is similar in concept to Samsung’s The Frame, which can be set to display artwork when idle; Samsung even has an artwork store that grants customers access to thousands of works of art for $4.99 monthly, and owners can replace the TV’s bezels with different finishes and textures to better match a room. Here at CES, Samsung just announced new sizes for The Frame. But last year’s 65-inch model is nearly 2 inches thick, so you can see the advantage of OLED’s efficiency there. For those not interested in LG’s luxury series, there are also excellent updates to the regular OLED lineup, and LG is introducing an entirely new size for 2020: a 48-inch 4K OLED TV. At that size, you’re getting pixel density “comparable to that of a 96-inch 8K TV,” the company says. Consumers are buying giant TVs in droves, but it’s nice to see LG recognizing that some people need something a bit smaller — and now they don’t have to miss out on OLED as a result. LG views the 48-incher as a perfect bridge between gaming monitor and living room TV, and it retains LG’s low input lag (around 13ms) and support for variable refresh rate via either Nvidia’s G-Sync or AMD’s FreeSync. For picture quality refinements in 2020, LG is introducing a new Filmmaker Mode that “delivers images the way they intended.” By disabling certain post-processing effects (such as motion smoothing, noise reduction and sharpening) while perfectly preserving correct aspect ratios, colors and frame rates, LG OLED TVs with the Filmmaker Mode faithfully replicate the original vision of the director. LG’s new Alpha 9 Gen 3 processor can differentiate between different types of objects on screen and apply different processing to each area to optimal sharpness and noise reduction. It’s also capable of recognizing the “genre” of content on screen and can automatically switch to the appropriate TV mode for sports, movies, standard (news, etc), and animation. LG is building always-listening microphones into its most luxurious OLED TVs But in a move that might unsettle some, LG is building active-listening microphones directly into some of its most premium 2020 TVs. The company already supports Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant, and Apple’s AirPlay 2, but now it’s introducing its own voice command system with a custom trigger phrase: “Hi, LG.” On older sets, you had to hit a button on LG’s remote control for voice interactions (or use a smart speaker), but now the microphone is part of the TV itself. LG says the microphone can be completely disabled if that’s what a customer prefers. LG’s own voice system can search for content and handle functions like turning the TV on or off. Microphones will not be built into the mainstream CX and BX OLED series TVs. So if that’s what you’re eyeing, you’ve got a bit of reassurance there. Instead, the hands-free voice control will be available on the rollable TV (when it eventually ships in the US), LG’s 8K OLED, the Wallpaper TV, and the new Gallery Series. Regardless, I still see this as an alarming experiment, and I wish LG had just left all things voice to the remote. Other software tricks for LG this year include the option to use a Bluetooth speaker as a front speaker, a single rear speaker, or even stereo left / right rear speakers. Yes, it’s possible to put together a quick and dirty surround sound system this way. LG is adding sports alerts for game scores, and — in the US only — you can pause some content and see what actors are on screen and even what they’re wearing and where you can purchase the same outfit or accessory. E-commerce is coming to your beautiful OLED screen. Here’s the full lineup of LG’s 2020 OLEDs. As always, the company is releasing a lineup of NanoCell LCD TVs as well. RX Signature series (rollable TV) 65-inch ZX Signature series (8K OLED) 88-inch 77-inch WX Signature series (“wallpaper” OLED TV) 65-inch GX Signature series (new Gallery series) 77-inch 65-inch 55-inch CX series 77-inch 65-inch 55-inch 48-inch BX series 65-inch 55-inch Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook