https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21057108/art-club
Delta is offsetting emissions for flights to Las Vegas for CES - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science CES 2020 News Energy Delta is offsetting emissions for flights to Las Vegas for CES This follows JetBlue’s announcement that it’s making domestic flights carbon neutral this year By Justine Calma@justcalma Jan 8, 2020, 3:52pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Delta is offsetting emissions for flights to Las Vegas for CES Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by DANIEL SLIM/AFP via Getty Images Delta will spend more than $100,000 to offset the greenhouse gas emissions of every flight to and from Las Vegas, Nevada, this week. It’s an effort to reduce the environmental impact of people flying in for the Consumer Electronics Show that’s taking place, which is expected to bring in 170,000 people from 160 countries between January 7th and 10th. To make those flights carbon neutral, Delta will put that money toward planting trees and helping farmers grow their crops more sustainably in Kenya and Uganda. It’s investing in an initiative called The International Small Group & Tree Planting Program, which says it has planted more than 19 million trees since 1999. airlines are responding to growing concerns about how flights contribute to the climate crisis Delta’s announcement comes on the heels of JetBlue becoming the first airline to commit to making all of its domestic flights carbon neutral starting in July. Both airlines are responding to growing concerns about how flights contribute to the climate crisis. Teen climate activist Greta Thunberg has helped ignite a global phenomenon of “flight shaming” as she committed to traveling by train and boat rather than flying internationally to attend United Nations climate talks. Currently, 2 percent of global carbon dioxide emissions come from aviation, and that number is expected to climb. Emissions from the sector have grown by 32 percent in just the past five years, according to a report by the nonprofit International Council on Clean Transportation. Airlines and passengers can make up for the pollution they’re generating by purchasing offsets that help to keep planet-heating greenhouse gas emissions out of the atmosphere. Often, that’s by planting trees that breathe in and store carbon dioxide. But tree-planting schemes can be complicated. Trees need to keep the carbon dioxide they’re storing for about a century (the amount of time the carbon would have stayed in the atmosphere) in order for them to effectively help slow down climate change. Otherwise, they just spit the carbon back out into the atmosphere. And offsetting a flight shouldn’t be an excuse for flying more or not taking additional efforts to actually cut down on emissions. offsetting a flight shouldn’t be an excuse for flying more Yet, despite the drawbacks of relying on offsets, it is notable that airlines are actually doing something about climate change. One of the critiques of the “flight shaming” phenomenon is that it could place too much blame on individuals rather than holding big polluting industries responsible. “The more we talk about the relative merits of individual action versus more systemic and political action, the more we aren’t talking about the questions that are maybe more important,” Natalie Jones, a PhD student in international law at Cambridge University and a staff writer at the International Institute for Sustainable Development, told The Verge in September. For its part, JetBlue is trying to shrink its carbon footprint on top of buying offsets. For all flights leaving San Francisco starting mid-2020, it says it will use fuel with lower emissions made from food waste (in particular, used cooking oil and animal fats). It’s also replacing older planes with more efficient aircraft. The company’s annual carbon emissions reached over 10 million metric tons in 2018, which is a little under what three coal-fired power plants might put out in a year. Delta, one of the largest airlines in the world, is also moving to more fuel-efficient planes and has committed to slashing its greenhouse gas emissions in half by 2050. Over the past several years, the company has worked to keep its annual greenhouse gas emissions from rising above 2012 levels. Each year since, they emitted roughly 40 million metric tons of carbon dioxide, which is equivalent to the annual pollution of about 10 coal-fired power plants. “We reduce where we can and offset where we can’t. By offsetting all of our domestic flying, we’re preparing our business for the lower-carbon economy that aviation – and all sectors – must plan for,” Robin Hayes, JetBlue’s chief executive officer, said in a statement this week. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Delta is offsetting emissions for flights to Las Vegas for CES Voiceitt aims to help stroke survivors talk to smart homes View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook