https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21054619/art-club
Goal Zero’s newest battery is the ‘most powerful Yeti to date’ - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Goal Zero’s newest battery is the ‘most powerful Yeti to date’ New, 6 comments New Yeti X range offers backup power for the home or just your gadgets By Thomas Ricker@Trixxy Jan 7, 2020, 8:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Goal Zero’s newest battery is the ‘most powerful Yeti to date’ Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The 6000X is “the most powerful Yeti to date.” Image: Goal Zero Goal Zero, the maker of portable batteries both big and small, is rolling out its all-new Yeti X models at CES. They range in sizes suitable for home backup power to everyday on-the-go charging. The Yeti X lineup expands from four to six models, all with USB-C Power Delivery and faster solar charging, thanks to MPPT (maximum power point tracking). They’re also adding regulated 12V ports for better compatibility with devices like portable fridges. At the top of the range is the 6000X, “the most powerful Yeti to date.” It’s designed to run critical home circuits for days at a time. The top three Yeti X models have been bumped from 1500W to 2000W AC inverters, suitable for powering most household appliances. They can also be charged twice as fast as previous models. At the low end of the new range is the relatively compact and lightweight 200X. Although Goal Zero doesn’t list specs, the model number is a rough indicator of each battery’s capacity in watt-hours. Models announced include the Yeti 6000X, 3000X, 1500X, 1000X, 500X, and 200X. Grid View Yeti 200X. image: Goal Zero Yeti 500X. image: Goal Zero Yeti 1000X. image: Goal Zero Yeti 1500X. Yeti 3000X. image: Goal Zero The company is also updating the Yeti App to version 3.0. It shows historical energy flows broken down by days, weeks, months, and years with varying precision. Users can also select customized charging modes to optimize battery lifespan. For example, “Battery Saver Mode” ensures the Yeti X only charges up to 85 percent and never discharges below 15 percent. The Yeti 200X is available now, but the beefier batteries will be released “throughout 2020,” according to Goal Zero. No prices were given. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Goal Zero’s newest battery is the ‘most powerful Yeti to date’ Concept cars and concept foldables betray a lack of confidence View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook