https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051391/amd-ryzen-4000-lenovo-yoga-slim-7-specs-release-date-price-features-ces-2020
Lenovo’s new AMD Ryzen 4000-powered Yoga is $360 cheaper than its Intel version - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News Lenovo’s new AMD Ryzen 4000-powered Yoga starts $360 cheaper than its Intel version New, 4 comments AMD and Intel go head-to-head By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 6, 2020, 2:30pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Lenovo’s new AMD Ryzen 4000-powered Yoga starts $360 cheaper than its Intel version Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email AMD hasn’t even officially announced its Ryzen 4000 processors yet, but Lenovo is already offering us a first glimpse at a laptop that will ship in April with the new chips. The Yoga Slim 7 is new and improved for 2020, and Lenovo is offering two versions of the 14-inch laptop with either AMD’s Ryzen 4000 series chips or Intel’s 10th Gen Core i7. The choice between Intel and AMD will undoubtedly come down to budget versus performance, as Lenovo is pricing the AMD version of this 14-inch laptop starting at just $849.99 compared to the starting price of the Intel version at $1,209.99. AMD hasn’t fully detailed its Ryzen 4000 processors just yet, so it’s unclear exactly what chip will power this Yoga Slim 7. We do know that the Ryzen 4000 series is based on 7nm process technology and AMD’s Zen 2 core architecture, though. The $360 gap does suggest that AMD either has a very budget-friendly option available to OEMs or Lenovo isn’t including Intel’s budget chips in the Yoga Slim 7. Whether you pick an AMD or Intel Yoga Slim 7, most of the other internals remain the same. There’s a 14-inch 1080p display, up to 16GB of RAM, and up to 1TB of SSD storage. Port selection is impressive, with two USB 3.1 ports, a single USB Type-C (Thunderbolt) port, an SD card reader, HDMI port, and the usual headphone jack. Where the two Intel and AMD options differ is Intel’s model includes Wi-Fi 6 support, and you can also pick a fabric variant of the laptop that includes the option of a 4K display and support for GeForce MX graphics. Lenovo is also offering a 15-inch model with optional GeForce GTX graphics support. Both the Intel and AMD versions of the Yoga Slim 7 will be available in April, with the AMD version starting at $849.99 and the Intel model priced starting at $1,209.99. Related Lenovo’s ThinkPad X1 Fold is a $2,499 PC with a folding OLED screen In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Lenovo’s new AMD Ryzen 4000-powered Yoga starts $360 cheaper than its Intel version Origin’s Big O doesn’t make you choose between console or PC gaming View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook