https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/4/21050115/samsung-galaxy-s11-event-february-11-unpacked-2020
Samsung confirms Galaxy S11 event for February 11th - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Samsung Samsung confirms Galaxy S11 event for February 11th New, 15 comments The next flagship from Samsung will arrive next month By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 4, 2020, 11:01pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung confirms Galaxy S11 event for February 11th Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge The next Galaxy flagship smartphone from Samsung is indeed being announced on February 11th. After the date was discovered earlier today thanks to an unlisted video, Samsung has now confirmed that its Unpacked event will be held that day in San Francisco. There’s little doubt we’ll see the Galaxy S11 (rumors indicate it might actually be branded as the S20 for some reason), and Samsung is also at work on its second foldable phone after last year’s Galaxy Fold. If you like reading into such things, the invite could be seen as a tease of both devices. And Samsung indeed confirms that more than one is coming on the 11th. Say hello to a whole new Galaxy. Unpacked on February 11, 2020 #SamsungEvent pic.twitter.com/ln1pqt2vu7 — Samsung Mobile (@SamsungMobile) January 5, 2020 The #GalaxyUnpacked promo material reimagined! pic.twitter.com/RoP4xKgEDq — Max J. (@Samsung_News_) January 4, 2020 Early renders of the S11 reveal a center-aligned hole punch selfie camera, minimal top and bottom bezels, and a large rear camera housing not unlike that of the iPhone 11 Pro or Pixel 4. Guess who is bringing you the very first and early look at the #Samsung #GalaxyS11... As usual, 360° video + gorgeous 5K renders + dimensions, on behalf of my Friends over at @91mobiles -> https://t.co/ejj58wPNSH pic.twitter.com/QNS2dsyLp7 — Steve H.McFly (@OnLeaks) November 22, 2019 It’s also believed that Samsung will move to a higher 120Hz refresh rate with its next flagship, leapfrogging OnePlus and Google and matching the Asus ROG Phone 2’s level of fluidity. Other rumors hint at more advanced camera features and 8K video recording. Images that appeared last month line up with reports that Samsung’s next Fold will be a clamshell-style phone that folds vertically. Hopefully it’ll also be more affordable than the original Fold — with less durability concerns out of the gate. Samsung’s Unpacked event will be streamed live on the web as it happens, and The Verge will be in attendance to bring you all the news on the company’s 2020 mobile lineup. Just yesterday, Samsung unveiled the S10 Lite and Note 10 Lite, more affordable versions of its 2019 headliners. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung confirms Galaxy S11 event for February 11th Samsung’s next flagship Galaxy phone will probably be announced February 11 View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook