https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21114885/huawei-overtakes-apple-2019-analysts-strategy-analytics-counterpoint-research-canalys
Huawei overtakes Apple in annual race to Samsung’s smartphone crown - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Mobile US & World Huawei overtakes Apple in annual race to Samsung’s smartphone crown New, 48 comments Apple’s strong fourth quarter wasn’t enough to hold off the Chinese challenger By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 30, 2020, 6:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Huawei overtakes Apple in annual race to Samsung’s smartphone crown Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by William Joel / The Verge Huawei overtook Apple to become the world’s second best selling smartphone manufacturer in 2019, according to reports from Strategy Analytics, Counterpoint Research, and Canalys. Over the course of the year, the Chinese manufacturer reportedly shipped around 240 million phones, compared to just under 200 million for Apple. Samsung retained its comfortable lead in first place, shipping just shy of 300 million devices. Xiaomi and Oppo rounded out the list of the top five manufacturers. The jump is especially surprising given Huawei’s continued presence on the USA’s entity list, which prevents the company from installing Google’s apps and services on its new devices, limiting their appeal outside of China. As a result, Huawei’s main strength was in its home country. Counterpoint Research says China accounted for 60 percent of its sales, allowing its shipments worldwide to increase by 17 percent between 2018 and 2019 — though not in Q4 specifically. One report said that Huawei’s shipments grew by 17 percent between 2018 and 2019. Image: Canalys However, tensions with the US still had an effect. Canalys notes that 2019 could have been the year that Huawei challenged Samsung for the number one smartphone spot, but ultimately this challenge never materialized. It’s unclear when the situation could change in the future. Huawei has been nipping at Apple’s heels for a while. Back in 2017 Huawei initially overtook Apple to sell more smartphones in the months of June and July, and the following year IDC reported that it had sold more phones than Apple in the second quarter of the year. But in 2019, the company overtook Apple to sell more phones throughout the entire year. Although it lost out on the number two spot for 2019 as a whole, Apple had a very strong fourth quarter as is typical for the company. All three market analyst firms agreed that it managed to outsell Samsung in the last quarter, with sales being driven by the iPhone 11’s lower pricing in particular. Analysts said that Apple’s phone sales were up by between 7 and 11 percent in Q4 2019 compared to the same quarter in 2018. Samsung is expected to rebound this quarter with the launch of its flagship Galaxy S20 series next month. Apple is also likely to receive a boost from the launch of its long-rumored successor to the more affordable iPhone SE, which could be popular in price-sensitive markets like India. Despite individual gains, all three reports agree that the industry sold fewer phones in 2019 than it did in 2018. Counterpoint Research notes that this is the first time the smartphone market has ever declined for two years in a row. With the US’s trade wars still ongoing, and China’s coronavirus scare having potential implications for supply chains, 2020 could be another challenging year. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook