https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/31/21117129/coronavirus-quarantine-citizens-california-evacuated-wuhan-cdc
US quarantines citizens evacuated from Wuhan over coronavirus concerns - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health US quarantines citizens evacuated from Wuhan This is the first quarantine in the US in 50 years By Nicole Wetsman Jan 31, 2020, 2:12pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: US quarantines citizens evacuated from Wuhan Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by MATT HARTMAN/AFP via Getty Images The 195 United States citizens who were evacuated from Wuhan, China, the epicenter of the new coronavirus outbreak, will be placed under quarantine. This is the first time since the 1960s that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has exercised its legal right to place people into quarantine. The evacuated people will be quarantined at a military base in California for 14 days. Right now, 14 days is the longest estimate for how long it takes to develop symptoms after being exposed to the new coronavirus. The new coronavirus has infected more than 9,500 people worldwide in nearly two dozen countries, and it has killed 213 people in China. The CDC initially said that they would stay at the military base under observation for three days. The change comes because of the increasing number of cases in China, as well as new reports that people can pass the virus to others before they start showing symptoms, said Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the CDC during a press call. “These returning travelers are coming directly from the epicenter” In addition, while the coronavirus has spread throughout China, the highest number of cases continues to be in Wuhan. “These returning travelers are coming directly from the epicenter,” she said. The US has plans to evacuate more people from Wuhan, and the CDC is still working to determine how it will monitor them once they arrive. Although the CDC has a test that can check if someone who is already sick has the coronavirus, the test doesn’t work in people who don’t yet have symptoms. “The negative result does not help us confirm people are safe from this disease,” Messonnier said. There have been six people in the US who have had confirmed cases of the new coronavirus. Five of them got it while they were traveling in China; the sixth got it from his wife, who caught it while traveling and was in close contact with him before being put in isolation. The US State Department has issued a level 4 travel advisory, the most severe warning it gives; this advisory applies only to areas with a “greater likelihood of life-threatening risks.” Americans shouldn’t travel to China because of the coronavirus risk, the State Department said last night. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline US quarantines citizens evacuated from Wuhan US airlines temporarily suspend flights to China amid coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook