https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21197188/advil-coronavirus-symptoms-covid-19-text-misinformation-twitter
A viral text warns taking Advil could make COVID-19 symptoms worse, but experts say it’s unfounded - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Science Coronavirus A viral text warns taking Advil could make COVID-19 symptoms worse, but experts say it’s unfounded The information claims to be coming from ‘Vienna’s laboratory studying COVID-19’ By Zoe Schiffer@ZoeSchiffer Mar 27, 2020, 2:52pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: A viral text warns taking Advil could make COVID-19 symptoms worse, but experts say it’s unfounded Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Roberto Machado Noa/LightRocket via Getty Images A viral coronavirus rumor says taking ibuprofen, which is marketed by GlaxoSmithKline as Advil, could make COVID-19 symptoms worse. The message is spreading through text messages and over Twitter, and it claims to be coming from a Vienna laboratory studying COVID-19. The problem is: there isn’t any evidence that it’s true. There hasn’t been enough research on ibuprofen in COVID-19 patients to determine whether it is actually harmful. An alternative is acetaminophen, which is marketed by Johnson & Johnson as Tylenol. But not everyone can take it because it can make some liver conditions worse. “Vast majority of people who died had ibuprofen / Advil in their system so do not take it!!” the message reads. “Those who recovered did not take ibuprofen so if you have symptoms, take Paracetamol only!!! Looks like this virus thrives on ibuprofen so don’t do it and tell everyone you can!!!” Just got this message sent to me from a friend. I have no idea if it's true or accurate. Maybe if we retweet it and pass it around we can get some comments and possibly some clarity. Or maybe it was released by the makers of Tylenol. pic.twitter.com/uFEncIQlZB — Mark Minervini (@markminervini) March 26, 2020 The telltale signs of misinformation are everywhere in the Advil rumor. Many of the messages claim to be coming from someone’s friend or sister who is a nurse at New York University. She seems to have firsthand information about the mysterious Vienna laboratory. The vague attribution makes the information difficult to track. The message also ends with a plea: tell everyone you know! Pass it on! This type of urgent request exploits the need for concrete information and the desire we have to protect one another. Like most effective misinformation, the message mixes bits of truth with outright lies. For instance, France’s health minister tweeted out a warning that “taking anti-inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, cortisone, ...) could be a factor in worsening the infection,” wrote Stephanie M. Lee from BuzzFeed. The warning echoed a letter written to The Lancet, a medical journal, on March 11th. There, researchers claimed that taking certain drugs — including ibuprofen — could make people more susceptible to the virus. But experts refuted these claims. Michele Barry, director of the Center for Innovation in Global Health at Stanford University, told The New York Times that there was simply no data to back them up. Garret FitzGerald from the University of Pennsylvania’s Perelman School of Medicine, told the Times, “It’s all anecdote, and fake news off the anecdotes. That’s the world we are living in.” The rumor gained enough traction, however, that GlaxoSmithKline issued a statement refuting the claims. The statement now pops up if you go to the website for Advil. “We understand the use of steroids and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAIDs) products, including ibuprofen, for the alleviation of COVID-19 symptoms has come into question,” the statement reads. “As a leader in the OTC pain category, GSK Consumer Healthcare is not aware of any scientific evidence that directly links worse outcomes in patients suffering from COVID-19 infection with the use of ibuprofen or other anti-inflammatories.” The World Health Organization (WHO) told The Verge that it is not aware of any studies showing ibuprofen could be dangerous for COVID-19 patients. “We are consulting with physicians treating COVID-19 patients and are not aware of reports of any negative effects of ibuprofen, beyond the usual known side effects that limit its use in certain populations,” a WHO spokesperson said in an emailed statement. “Based on currently available information, WHO does not recommend against the use of ibuprofen.” In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline A viral text warns taking Advil could make COVID-19 symptoms worse, but experts say it’s unfounded Go read this Texas Monthly piece on how HEB prepped for the coronavirus outbreak View all 322 stories Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook