https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21048942/diesel-wear-os-smartwatch-fadelite-fossil
Diesel’s newest Wear OS smartwatch is slightly smaller and has a translucent case - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Google Tech CES 2020 News Diesel’s newest Wear OS smartwatch is slightly smaller and has a translucent case New, 1 comment Another bold Diesel design By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 6, 2020, 11:14am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Diesel’s newest Wear OS smartwatch is slightly smaller and has a translucent case Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Diesel Diesel, a sub-brand of Fossil, is launching a new, bold-looking Wear OS smartwatch today at CES, dubbed the Diesel On Fadelite. The Fadelite looks slick, and Diesel says it’s designed to be worn by both men and women. The watch has four different colorways, and Diesel says most of them feature fading colors (hence the “Fadelite” name). There’s one that fades from red to black, one from black to clear, one from blue to clear, and one that’s clear with what Diesel describes as an “iridescent” case. With its 43mm case, the Fadelite is also considerably smaller than other Diesel smartwatches; Diesel’s Full Guard 2.5 has a 56mm case, by comparison. Even though 43mm is small for a Diesel watch, that size still makes it larger than a lot of other smartwatches. Grid View Diesel says the Fadelite has a “Globe” dial with a globe you can manipulate using the watch’s touchscreen and a tile that automatically updates with the current and forecasted weather conditions. The Fadelite is equipped with Qualcomm’s Snapdragon Wear 3100 chipset (which is found in many other Wear OS watches), and Diesel says the watch is swim-proof and will support Google Assistant, GPS tracking, and heart rate tracking. This isn’t Diesel’s first Wear OS smartwatch — it released the Axial last fall and the Full Guard 2.5 in 2018, for example — and Diesel parent company Fossil is no stranger to Wear OS watches. It most recently released the Gen 5 Carlyle in August. Fossil even sold some secret smartwatch technology to Google last January. But Wear OS watches are still mostly just fine, as my colleague Dieter Bohn has said repeatedly, and it doesn’t seem as if the Fadelite is going to change that — though it could look cool on your wrist. Diesel says the Fadelite will cost $275 in the US and £249 in the UK when it releases in March. Related What can Google do to compete with the Apple Watch? Not much Google just spent $40 million for Fossil’s secret smartwatch tech Diesel’s new Full Guard 2.5 is the biggest Wear OS watch yet Update January 7th, 12:26PM ET: Added UK pricing. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Diesel’s newest Wear OS smartwatch is slightly smaller and has a translucent case Samsung has made an invisible AI-powered keyboard for your phone View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook