https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21114130/facebook-q4-2019-earnings-instagram-whatsapp-messenger
Facebook’s messaging apps are more important than ever as revenue growth stalls - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apps Mobile Business Facebook’s messaging apps are more important than ever as revenue growth stalls New, 2 comments The company says more people than ever are using at least one of its apps every day By Nick Statt@nickstatt Jan 29, 2020, 4:51pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Facebook’s messaging apps are more important than ever as revenue growth stalls Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Facebook’s global expansion continues unabated as the company now reports that about 2.26 billion people use at least one of the company’s family of mobile apps or its website at least once a day, while 2.89 billion do so at least once a month. Those numbers are up 11 percent and 9 percent, respectively, from this time a year ago. The daily figure represents the greatest growth among the collection of stats the company typically touts every quarter, which also includes the number of people who use the main Facebook service every day and every month. Those figures only grew 9 and 8 percent, respectively. More pressing, however, is that while Facebook’s user growth remains steady, the same cannot be said for its revenue and profit. Facebook still makes money hand over fist, of course, but the future of the business depends on finding ways to make more money from those new users, and that doesn’t appear to be happening even as Facebook can say more people use its products than ever before. Profit growth this past quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2018 was only 7 percent, compared to the whopping 61 percent jump Facebook experienced a year ago. Facebook’s future lies in its messaging apps Only in recent quarters has Facebook begun touting that more holistic DAP metric, for family “daily active people,” which the company has said is a more accurate measure of its growth. That’s because a majority of new users don’t tend to use the Facebook website all that much anymore, or even the Facebook mobile app all that much. Instead, users are more likely, at least on a daily basis, to log into Facebook Messenger, Instagram, or WhatsApp. As a result, Facebook’s main platform has faded into the background for many younger users, and it’s no longer the dynamic revenue driver it used to be. For Facebook’s business, the DAP metric and its high visibility in earnings reports is also indicative of how the social network sees its future: increasingly private and messaging-related, with less of a focus on public-facing and traditional social network platforms. That tracks with CEO Mark Zuckerberg’s big shift in vision for the company announced last year, in which he said Facebook would shift toward a privacy-focused, encrypted messaging platform with a unified back end spanning Instagram, Messenger, and WhatsApp. Overall, Facebook is recording sales of just over $21 billion for the fourth quarter of 2019, which ended December 31st, and a profit of $7.35 billion. Both those figures just narrowly beat analyst expectations, but the company’s shares are down more than 7 percent in after-hours trading. That’s due in part to Facebook’s rate of growth, which is still impressive but slowing down considerably, with more and more of its profit potential now dependent on Instagram and its other messaging platforms. Facebook introduces new stat, Family Average Revenue Per Person, to mask how revenue might be shifting from Fb to Instagram https://t.co/7X40vIP1nl pic.twitter.com/enXTZwgdQH — Josh Constine (@JoshConstine) January 29, 2020 Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook