https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/10/21131120/samsung-galaxy-buds-leaked-hands-on-video-winfuture-roland-quandt
Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus detailed in new hands-on video - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Samsung Headphones Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus detailed in new hands-on video New, 6 comments Unannounced earbuds appear after being shipped early By Jon Porter@JonPorty Feb 10, 2020, 4:30am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus detailed in new hands-on video Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung’s upcoming true wireless earbuds, the Galaxy Buds Plus, have leaked again, this time in a hands-on video from WinFuture’s Roland Quandt. As well as confirming the specs that leaked last week, the video and follow-up tweets give an idea of how the earbuds perform in the real world; offering details on battery life, sound quality, and call quality. The source of the leak was a European retailer who shipped the Galaxy Buds Plus to Quandt early, seemingly unaware that they were yet to have been officially announced. Quandt reports that the Galaxy Buds Plus’ battery life was still at 54 percent after playing loud music for three and a half hours, a little under a third of the way through the 11 hours of battery life that Samsung claims they offer. Their fit, meanwhile, is apparently good enough that “not having ANC doesn’t even really matter.” In terms of sound quality, Quandt says he found the bass level of the earbuds to be a little low, but that he could rectify this by selecting their bass boosted EQ mode from the companion app. So after a few calls I was told that I sound "a bit as if I was talking thru a Walkie Talkie", sounded "very nasal" and "ambient noise was very much present, much louder than when talking thru the phone itself". More testing needed, but.... incoming sound is fine, btw. https://t.co/WyfUOpIUb8 — Roland Quandt (@rquandt) February 9, 2020 According to Quandt, the quality of the earbuds’ microphones leaves a little to be desired. People he called on the phone said he sounded like he was talking “thru a Walkie Talkie.” Ambient noise was also a problem, despite the triple microphone array on each earbud. However, Quandt also says that these calls were made from a moving train without VoLTE, which could have been a contributing factor. Otherwise, the video and follow-up tweets corroborate much of what we learned last week when Evan Blass leaked their specs. The earbuds each have two drivers (a woofer and a tweeter), and Samsung’s official specs say they offer a total of 22 hours when used with their charging case. Like their predecessors, they support Qi wireless charging and Bluetooth 5. Quant’s video claims that the Galaxy Buds Plus will retail for $169 (or €169 in Europe), a slight increase over the $149 (€149) Samsung charged for the originals. The earbuds are heavily anticipated to be announced at Samsung’s Unpacked event alongside the Samsung Galaxy S20. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s Galaxy Buds Plus detailed in new hands-on video Samsung aired a Galaxy Z Flip commercial before it even announced the phone View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook