https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/27/21155879/alex-azar-coronavirus-vaccine-affordable-insurance
Health secretary Alex Azar says a coronavirus vaccine may not be affordable - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Editorial Science Health Health secretary Alex Azar won’t promise that a coronavirus vaccine would be affordable That could put everyone’s health at risk By Nicole Wetsman Feb 27, 2020, 11:53am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Health secretary Alex Azar won’t promise that a coronavirus vaccine would be affordable Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Tasos Katopodis / Getty Images It’s going to be a long time before a vaccine for the new coronavirus is available. But when it is, there’s no guarantee that it will be affordable for all Americans, according to Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar. Azar, a former drug company executive and pharmaceutical lobbyist, told Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) during a congressional hearing on Wednesday that, although he would want to make it affordable, he won’t promise that it will be. “We can’t control that price because we need the private sector to invest,” he said. Unfortunately for Azar, the new coronavirus doesn’t care about profit margins or returns on investment at drug companies. During an outbreak of an infectious disease, that attitude doesn’t just put the poor at risk by making it harder for them to access a protective drug — it puts everyone at risk. Here's the clip of Azar not assuring Rep. Schakowsky a covid-19 vaccine will be affordable to all. pic.twitter.com/Z8aNd4wLWj — Michael McAuliff (@mmcauliff) February 26, 2020 Vaccines work best when everyone in a community gets them, and herd immunity kicks in when enough people are immunized against a disease. When the proportion of vaccinated people is below a certain level, it’s more likely that someone who hasn’t received the vaccine will come into contact with someone who has the disease, which allows it to keep circulating and cause more outbreaks. That’s what we saw when rates of measles vaccination dropped in New York in 2019: hundreds of people caught the preventable illness. Measles is far more infectious than the new coronavirus appears to be, but the same principles apply. There is no coronavirus vaccine available yet, and there won’t be for at least a year to 18 months. But when it is, widespread vaccination is the best way to protect everyone, poor and wealthy alike. Vaccines are just one example of the way cost-prohibitive health care may make it harder for the US to contain the spread of the new coronavirus. People with no insurance or bad insurance might be reluctant to seek care for something they suspect might be COVID-19, the illness caused by the virus, because they’re concerned about the price tag on testing. Osmel Martinez Azcue, for example, went to Miami’s Jackson Memorial Hospital when he came down with a flulike illness after returning from a trip to China. He wouldn’t have normally gone to the hospital for the flu, he told the Miami Herald, but he didn’t want to put his family and the community at risk if he had COVID-19. As it turned out, he did not have the new coronavirus, but he was still charged thousands of dollars for the testing and care given at the hospital. Thousands of others in the US, if they thought there was a chance they could have the virus, might have to choose between taking precautions that could protect the community and avoiding a massive bill. Companies that offer only a limited number of sick days — like many the service industry, for example — also put the broader community at risk, not just their employees. People who work in those positions might not be able to afford to take time off if they’re sick. Vulnerable communities always see a disproportionate impact of disease and aren’t able to take the same precautionary measures as people who have more money and flexibility. That, on its own, is an enormous public health problem. But it also makes it easier for the virus to keep spreading, which impacts everyone, even those people who can afford a certain level of protection. When it comes to infectious disease, health isn’t individual; it’s collective. And the cost of profit-driven care is simply too high for us to pay. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Health secretary Alex Azar won’t promise that a coronavirus vaccine would be affordable Coronavirus merch is somehow worse than I expected View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook