https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/9/21058586/roland-facet-grand-piano-ces-2020
Roland’s Facet debuts at CES 2020: the Cybertruck of grand pianos - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Music CES 2020 News Roland made the Cybertruck of grand pianos New, 11 comments By Dani Deahl@danideahl Jan 9, 2020, 1:49pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Roland made the Cybertruck of grand pianos Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Electronic instruments company Roland has unveiled a concept piano called the Facet, which is likely to turn heads as it makes appearances this year. The low poly (or as Roland says “evocative crystal-like”) design has a keyboard with a smart screen and a hollow cabinet that contains speakers instead of the usual hammers and strings. It’s a true concept product in that there are no plans for it to go on sale — Roland says they made it to show the piano’s future. Image: Roland Roland notes that the piano has been around for about 300 years with little change to its form in that entire time. The company wanted to poke into the limitations of the piano’s traditional design, and challenged designers to the task in 2015. The Facet is the result of that competition — with a futuristic, angular look that’s reminiscent of the design language in Tesla’s Cybertruck. Here’s how this thing works: Speakers and resonators are packed in everywhere, from the base to the top board to the inside of the hollow frame in order to recreate the sonic resonance that typically comes from a piano cabinet. There are even near-field speakers that project sounds the player would specifically notice, and will recreate things like the noise that hammers make when they hit an acoustic piano string. So when you play the keyboard, it should sound like playing a regular grand piano, both to you and anyone else listening. The facet is beautiful and delightfully batty Given that Roland came out with an Alexa-powered keyboard last year, it’s not a surprise to see that they went all-in on tech with the Facet. There is some seriously crazy stuff baked into the piano’s music stand, which doubles as a smart screen. It’s Android powered, has a built-in music creation app, and comes with Alexa so you can command the piano with your voice. Oh, and there’s a video projector in the base. It conjures up visuals based on how you play and then projects them onto the piano’s top board. I imagine internal conversations around the Facet went something like: Design team: What smart features would you like in this piano? Roland: Yes. Look, a lot of this is delightfully batty because of how extreme the piano is, but some of these ideas aren’t far-fetched. Plus, it’s great to see companies shatter traditional molds and continue to play with how tech can be merged into instruments that have been around for ages. It is important to reiterate this is a concept. And as my colleague Dieter Bohn said in his OnePlus Concept One review, the point of a concept is “to look cool and convince you that the company that made it can do cool things.” Roland certainly achieved that with the Facet. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Roland made the Cybertruck of grand pianos 2020 might be the year of reasonably okay foldable PCs, maybe View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook