https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21116081/art-club
Nintendo’s new Animal Crossing-themed Switch looks amazing - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Tech Nintendo’s new Animal Crossing-themed Switch looks amazing New, 10 comments The Joy-Con colors are so good By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 30, 2020, 8:02pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Nintendo’s new Animal Crossing-themed Switch looks amazing Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Nintendo is releasing an Animal Crossing-themed Switch on March 13th, just one week before the launch of Animal Crossing: New Horizons, and it’s one of the best-looking Switch models yet. Nintendo says you’ll be able to pre-order the themed console at select retailers soon. This is the full-size Switch, which means it can be played in handheld mode or on a TV by dropping the Switch into the (Nook family-adorned) dock. It also comes with detachable Joy-Con controllers, and the colors on them look amazing. Image: Nintendo This model of the Switch also has an embossed design on the back that’s just awesome. Image: Nintendo If you do pick this up, though, you should be aware that Animal Crossing: New Horizons isn’t bundled with it — you’ll need to buy that separately, and it will cost $59.99, like other first-party Nintendo titles. If you like the Animal Crossing-themed carrying case in the picture above, it will also be available separately starting March 13th. It also comes with a screen protector. Here’s a better look at it: Image: Nintendo Animal Crossing: New Horizons was originally slated to release in 2019, but Nintendo announced at E3 2019 that the game was delayed to March 20th. That release day is almost here, though — it’s just 50 days away. Related Animal Crossing: New Horizons on the Switch is delayed until March 2020 Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook