https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050746/art-club
Kwikset’s Halo Touch smart lock trades a numpad for a fingerprint scanner - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Kwikset’s Halo Touch smart lock trades a numpad for a fingerprint scanner New, 1 comment Don’t press digits; swipe your own digit By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Jan 6, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Kwikset’s Halo Touch smart lock trades a numpad for a fingerprint scanner Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Kwikset Halo Touch smart lock Image: Kwikset Door lock manufacturer Kwikset has announced the new Halo Touch, a Wi-Fi-connected smart lock that can also be unlocked with the swipe of a finger. Instead of a number pad that you use to input a PIN, like many other smart locks, the Halo Touch has a small fingerprint scanner on which you swipe a finger to lock or unlock the door. It will be available later this year for $249. Since the Halo Touch lacks a numpad, it has a smaller size than most smart locks. The fingerprint scanner is just above the standard keyhole, and there is a strip of LED lights to confirm readings above that. Otherwise, it basically looks like any standard deadbolt, just with a black spot in the middle where you scan your finger. Kwikset Halo Touch smart lock. Image: Kwikset Kwikset says all of the fingerprints are stored on the lock and are not sent to the cloud. It can store up to 100 fingerprints across 50 different user profiles. The Kwikset app lets you remotely monitor and control the lock from anywhere you have an internet connection. In addition, the Halo Touch supports both Amazon’s Alexa and Google Assistant voice assistants, but it does not support Apple’s HomeKit platform. It will be available in “traditional” and “contemporary” designs in three different finish options. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Kwikset’s Halo Touch smart lock trades a numpad for a fingerprint scanner Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook