https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21197090/zoombombing-zoom-stop-how-to-porn-trolls-video-chat-screen-sharing
How to stop trolls from taking over your Zoom  call - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Apple Google How-to How to stop trolls from taking over your Zoom call Zoombombing can be prevented, but it’s not as easy as it should be By Casey Newton@CaseyNewton Mar 27, 2020, 3:37pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How to stop trolls from taking over your Zoom call Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Andrew Lichtenstein/Corbis via Getty Images Zoom is an easy-to-use videoconferencing tool with a generous free tier. With people around the world isolating indoors to protect themselves against the spread of the coronavirus, it has never been more popular. But its popularity has also attracted trolls. The phenomenon of “Zoombombing,” in which an uninvited guest uses Zoom’s screen-sharing feature to broadcast porn and shock videos, has been on the rise. Most Zoom meetings have a public link that, if clicked, allow anyone to join. Trolls have been collecting these links and sharing them in private chat groups, and then signing on to other people’s calls to cause mischief. There’s an easy way to stop this from happening, but Zoom makes it needlessly difficult to find. If you schedule a meeting from the web interface, you won’t see the option to disable screen sharing. Instead: Click on “Settings” in the left-hand menu Scroll down to “Screen sharing” and under “Who can share?” click “Host Only” Click on “Save” Once you save your settings, future meetings that you start will have sharing disabled by default. If you forget to change the setting before you start your meeting, there’s a way to modify your settings after it starts: Once your Zoom meeting is running, click the caret to the right of the green “Share Screen” button in the center of the bottom row of icons Click “Advanced Sharing Options...” A dialog box will pop up allowing you to switch screen sharing availability from all participants to the host only. And what if you’re creating a meeting from your mobile device? To disable screen sharing after you’ve started your meeting: Tap the More (...) button at the bottom right corner of the screen Tap “Meeting Settings” If you’re using an iPhone, scroll down to “Allow Participants to Share” and switch the toggle off. If you’re using an Android phone, find “Lock Share” and switch the toggle on. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. Next Up In Reviews Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook