https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/20/21187983/debunk-coronavirus-conspiracy-theories-how-to-covid-19-news-science
How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Featured Stories How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories The novel coronavirus was not created in a lab By Justine Calma@justcalma Mar 20, 2020, 9:48am EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email A woman wears a protective mask and gloves as she walks past graffiti which reads ‘to be, to stay and to last’ (L), ‘Covid19. Government Weapon’ (C) and ‘Paranoia’ (R) in Madrid center on March 15, 2020 in Madrid, Spain. Photo by Pablo Blazquez Dominguez/Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic In the whirlwind of news about the novel coronavirus pandemic, it can be hard to figure out what’s a scam or rumor and what’s vital information. The ways in which the COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, has transformed the way we work and keep ourselves entertained already feels unreal. To understand why there’s so much misinformation out there — for example, that the virus was purposely created in a lab — The Verge spoke with John Cook, a cognitive science researcher at George Mason University and one of the authors of a new Conspiracy Theory Handbook. A big fan of acronyms, Cook came up with a handy one to recognize when you or someone you know might be headed down a conspiracy theory rabbit hole and how to “inoculate” ourselves and others against it. 1/9 How do you spot a conspiracy theory? Here are the 7 tell-tale traits of conspiratorial thinking, summarized (& more easily remembered) with the acronym CONSPIR. More details in The Conspiracy Theory Handbook https://t.co/6Soo5eVWRy pic.twitter.com/cyQnCGqHzy — John Cook (@johnfocook) March 19, 2020 This interview has been lightly edited for length and clarity. Why are you publishing this handbook now? Why should we be thinking about conspiracy theories at a time like this? We had [the release of the handbook] planned for April, you know, and usually, I’m not that organized that I happen to have something done a month early. But once we just saw all the conspiracy theories and the misinformation flying around about the novel coronavirus, and that it was actively directly endangering the public, we thought, “We need to make this information accessible to people. There’s no point waiting a month if it’s ready to go now.” Is there one conspiracy theory you’re really concerned about? You have politicians in the US pushing the conspiracy theory that the coronavirus was bioengineered by a Chinese lab. And then you had retaliation to that. You had Chinese officials pushing the conspiracy theory that the US bioengineered the virus. We talked about this in the book, that there are tactical conspiracy theories. They’re not always just a guy with a tinfoil hat in his basement talking on his laptop. It can be actual governments intentionally constructing conspiracy theories for strategic reasons. And so when you have governments pushing out all these conspiracy theories, they’re quite distracting. It’s not what we need when we need governments all working together to address a global pandemic like this. “They’re not always just a guy with a tinfoil hat.” Why are those particular conspiracy theories harmful? So when you have conspiracy theories spreading around, one of the things it does is it erodes public trust in institutions, particularly government institutions and medical institutions, who provide accurate information. One way that that can cause damage is then the public doesn’t follow the advice that comes from these institutions. So if you have the CDC advising the public to maintain social distancing, don’t gather in public events, don’t go to restaurants, don’t go to concerts or pubs. People are distrusting that advice because it comes from a mainstream institution, then the conspiracy theories are now distracting. And that has direct implications because people start behaving in ways that not only endanger themselves but endanger the public in general. Twenty-nine percent of Americans believe the virus was created in a lab, according to new data from the Pew Research Center. Why has the conspiracy theory about the virus being engineered in labs become so popular? In the handbook, we talk about different conditions that make the public more vulnerable to conspiracy theories, more likely to gravitate toward them. And I think the two that are really applicable to this situation is the feeling of powerlessness and coping with threat. When people feel vulnerable, believing in conspiracy theories gives them more of a feeling of control. It seems almost counterintuitive because why would imagining that this is secret conspirators in a lab generating a virus, why does that make people feel more in control? Because at least that’s an explanation. And if the explanation is just random things happen in nature; people don’t like randomness. We prefer to have causal explanations. We prefer to have meaning in the way that we understand what happens in the world. And so conspiracy theories offer meaning. We’re more vulnerable to them when we feel powerless, when we feel threatened and we need to get a sense of control. How do you debunk theories like this when you come across them? “an empathetic approach” There’s a range of different solutions that we list in the handbook. And I think that the general principle that “an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure” applies. It’s better to inoculate people preemptively against conspiracy theories rather than trying to go in afterward and undo the damage. It’s easier to inoculate people against getting infected by a conspiracy theory, rather than trying to convince the conspiracy theorists that the conspiracy theory is not true. But also when you do address conspiracy theories, do it in a way that doesn’t reinforce or promote them. Basically, inoculation is delivering misinformation in a weakened form by explaining how it can’t be true and explaining what the facts are instead. For example, with the conspiracy theory that the novel coronavirus was created in a lab, scientists have found that it has natural origins. If your goal is to convince conspiracy theorists, then an empathetic approach is necessary just to have a genuine dialogue. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 3 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook