https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/25/21126558/best-games-2020-ps4-ps5-xbox-nintendo-switch-pc
The best games of 2020: PS4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, and PC - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this on Linkedin Share this on Reddit Share this on Pocket Share this on Flipboard Share this on Email The best games of 2020 The Verge’s favorite games on console, mobile, and PC Half-Life: Alyx is a satisfying return to City 17 By Adi Robertson Doom Eternal is gory, goofy, and metal as hell By Sam Byford Animal Crossing: New Horizons is a chill, charming life sim that puts you in control By Andrew Webster Call of Duty: Warzone is full of clever twists on battle royale By Nick Statt You don’t play Wide Ocean Big Jacket; you participate By Michael Moore In Murder by Numbers you solve crime with math By Andrew Webster Kentucky Route Zero’s final act was worth the wait By Andrew Webster You should play this extremely chill game about serving coffee to vampires and elves By Andrew Webster The Pedestrian is so much more than its great aesthetic By Michael Moore One of the Wii U’s best RPGs is even better on the Switch By Andrew Webster 2020 is a year in which we could all use an escape. There’s so much going on in the world, and so much of it is overwhelming, that even an hour away from the doom and gloom can be a welcome respite. It’s a time when video games can seem more vital than ever. Thankfully, 2020 is also a year full of great interactive experiences. That could mean the return of beloved franchises like Animal Crossing on the Switch or Half-Life in virtual reality, or inventive indie titles like Murder by Numbers or the final act of Kentucky Route Zero. Even Call of Duty has seen a resurgence, thanks to the free and accessible Warzone spinoff. As with last year, we’re going to be keeping tabs on all of the best games throughout the year. If we play something and recommend it, you’ll find it right here on this landing page, which will be updated regularly, so be sure to check back. And if you see the little “best games of 2020” badge on a review, know that it’s a title we truly love. Start here Kentucky Route Zero’s final act was worth the wait Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook