https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21128085/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-folding-glass-display-foldable-phone-unpacked-eventhttps://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21128085/samsung-galaxy-z-flip-folding-glass-display-foldable-phone-unpacked-event
Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip has the first folding glass display - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip has the first folding glass display New, 7 comments Hopefully, it’ll be more sturdy than the Galaxy Fold By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k Feb 11, 2020, 2:10pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip has the first folding glass display Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip has something that’s been on no other foldable phone to date: a folding glass screen. So far, every foldable phone and tablet has relied on plastic to cover up the display. It feels worse, dents easily, and likely contributed to their delicate builds. Glass was always hoped to be the future, whenever manufacturers could figure out how to make it. The phone’s display uses “ultra-thin glass” durable enough to withstand 200,000 folds, Samsung says. It refers to the technology as “revolutionary flexible glass,” and says that it’s “built to last.” Samsung says the glass is “proprietary,” suggesting it was made in house, and has branded the tech as “Ultra Thin Glass.” Related Samsung Galaxy Z Flip first look: folding glass changes everything Because it’s glass, the display should be sturdier and look and feel better. But it’s still new technology, and it may weaken over time as it’s continually creased and unfolded. It’s not clear that this will entirely solve folding phones’ other durability issues, either. Samsung’s Galaxy Fold initially broke, in part because the hinge mechanism allowed dirt to get underneath the display, damaging it. Glass might help (and Samsung says it’s made other changes to protect against dust, too), but it’s by no means the only piece of the design puzzle. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s Galaxy Z Flip has the first folding glass display Samsung’s new foldable Galaxy Z Flip will arrive on February 14th for $1,380 View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook