https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21056429/msis-creator-17-laptop-mini-led-1000-nits-hdr-4k
MSI’s Creator 17 is the ‘world’s very first’ Mini LED laptop - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Laptops MSI’s Creator 17 is the ‘world’s very first’ Mini LED laptop New, 9 comments Promising more dimming zones and better HDR By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 8, 2020, 4:50am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: MSI’s Creator 17 is the ‘world’s very first’ Mini LED laptop Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: MSI MSI is showing off its Creator 17 laptop at CES 2020, which it says is the “world’s very first” laptop to feature a Mini LED display. By using much smaller LEDs as a backlight, the laptop’s 17-inch 4K display can dim and brighten with much more accuracy than LCD displays with a traditional LED backlight. CNET reports that Mini LED screens typically use LEDs that are smaller than 2mm in size. The technology should be especially helpful for displaying HDR content, which benefits from a sharp level of contrast between light and dark areas of an image. The technology means that the display has 240 local dimming zones, according to MSI, which is a lot considering its 17-inch size. For comparison, Apple’s 6K $6,000 XDR display has 576 dimming zones, but it’s almost double the size at 32 inches. Its display can also reach a peak brightness of 1,000 nits. Image: MSI MSI also boasts that the Creator 17’s screen can display 100 percent of the DCI-P3 color gamut, and can get as bright as 1000 nits, which is considered a good maximum for delivering decent HDR performance. MSI says the Creator 17 is the only laptop to achieve this brightness, although HP’s Dragonfly from last year would beg to disagree. The 17-inch screen has 240 local dimming zones Mini LED might offer more dimming zones than regular LED LCD displays, but it’s important to note that it’s not the same as MicroLED, the new — and so far ultra-expensive — display technology that Samsung has been developing. The LEDs in a Mini LED display are only responsible for backlighting the LCD layer, whereas with MicroLED they replace it entirely. MicroLED aims to offer a similar level of performance to OLED, without the brightness limitations or problems with burn-in — the latter of which is a particular problem for laptops. It’s also worth noting that a Mini LED backlight by itself is no guarantee of screen quality. Just look at Rtings review of the Mini LED-equipped TCL 8-series Q825 from last year, which CNET notes was the first Mini LED TV on the market. While Rtings said that the local dimming was decent overall, it criticized the local dimming algorithm controlling the LEDs, which could crush details in dark scenes and was distracting in other moments. MSI is yet to announce a release date or pricing details for the Creator 17, and nor do we have much of an idea of its internal specifications at this time. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns MSI’s Creator 17 is the ‘world’s very first’ Mini LED laptop Linksys Wi-Fi will soon monitor your breathing as well as movement View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook