https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/26/21155255/art-club
Samsung pledges to improve Galaxy S20 camera after reviewers see issues - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Google Cameras and Photography Mobile Samsung pledges to improve Galaxy S20 camera after reviewers see issues New, 31 comments An update is coming By Sam Byford@345triangle Feb 26, 2020, 7:42pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung pledges to improve Galaxy S20 camera after reviewers see issues Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Dieter Bohn / The Verge Samsung has responded to some issues that early reviewers have found with the camera system on the new Galaxy S20 Ultra. The company says it’s working on an update to improve the camera, though it doesn’t acknowledge any specific problem or confirm when the fixes will be available. We have seen the issues ourselves with both focus hunting and overbearing skin smoothing. Our review will be posted soon. “The Galaxy S20 features a groundbreaking, advanced camera system,” Samsung says in a statement to The Verge. “We are constantly working to optimize performance to deliver the best experience for consumers. As part of this ongoing effort, we are working on a future update to improve the camera experience.” Reviews from publications including PC Mag and Input have highlighted that the autofocus system is unreliable, often taking a long time to lock onto a subject and sometimes failing to do so. We’re still putting the finishing touches on the Verge review, but we can confirm that we’ve found the same. The camera also exhibits aggressive image processing in certain situations, with a tendency to excessively smooth out skin. The Galaxy S20 Ultra’s camera system is one of its main selling points, including a huge 108-megapixel sensor and a periscope telephoto lens that Samsung pitches as being usable at up to 100x zoom. Stay tuned for our review tomorrow to see how it all works out in practice — at least, how it works right now. S20 Ultra Camera pic.twitter.com/wNGuxismJ1 — Dieter Bohn (@backlon) February 24, 2020 Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook