https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/8/21051618/voiceitt-stroke-survivors-talk-smart-homes-parkinsons-accessibility-ces-2020
Voiceitt aims to help stroke survivors talk to smart homes - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech CES 2020 News Voiceitt aims to help stroke survivors talk to smart homes The startup is integrating its nonstandard speech recognition technology into voice-activated devices By Nicole Wetsman Jan 8, 2020, 1:40pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Voiceitt aims to help stroke survivors talk to smart homes Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Smart home tech could someday be updated with software that makes it easier for people with speech-related medical conditions to communicate with their devices. At CES, the Israeli startup Voiceitt said that it was incorporating its nonstandard speech recognition program into voice-activated devices. The addition could allow people who struggle to communicate to direct and use those systems. “All indicators are pointing towards voice technology continuing to grow, so the accessibility component would not just be nice to have, but really important,” Sara Smolley, Voiceitt co-founder, told The Verge. Voiceitt’s smart home system can’t understand everything people with nonstandard speech say. Users train the system with their own voice and with key phrases like “turn the light on,” which lets it learn each person’s specific vocal patterns. Dozens of medical conditions, including cerebral palsy, Parkinson’s disease, and stroke, cause people to have trouble communicating: although they know what they want to say, they don’t have as much control over the muscles used to talk, making their speech hard to understand. Many people who have these medical conditions also have motor challenges, and can’t move around on their own. They would benefit from voice-activated technologies like smart homes, but standard systems often can’t understand their speech. Improving popular smart devices’ accuracy with nonstandard speech is an important goal to help bring technology to people who may benefit most. Voiceitt started with a translator application, currently in beta testing, that is designed to help people with nonstandard speech communicate with their friends, family, and caregivers. Users record themselves saying a variety of phrases. Then, the application uses the recordings and information gathered from its database of nonstandard speech samples to learn to interpret how they speak. When they speak into the app, it provides a synthesized audio translation as well as text on-screen. Smolley says that Voiceitt has one of the largest existing databases of nonstandard voices. They started building it during an initial crowdsourcing campaign that asked people to donate their voices. The company plans to continue to add voices to the database as people use the app. While the personal translator application is still in a beta version, the company wanted to expand the applications of their technology, Smolley says. “We learned that in addition to in person communication, we could do a lot more for people: we could help them talk to their machines,” she says. Voiceitt has received funding from the Alexa Fund, Amazon’s venture capital fund for voice technology innovation, and has participated in accelerator programs with both Google and Amazon. Additional reporting contributed by Dieter Bohn. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Voiceitt aims to help stroke survivors talk to smart homes At CES 2020, the AirPods Pro competitors arrived in droves View all 176 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook