https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/6/21168724/amazon-flex-coronavirus-warner-uber-lyft-postmates-grubhub-instacart-doordash
Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will New, 51 comments Right now, many other gig workers don’t get sick pay By Jay Peters@jaypeters Updated Mar 7, 2020, 10:05am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Amazon has told its contract Flex drivers, which deliver the e-commerce company’s packages, to stay home if they get sick amid the ongoing coronavirus outbreak, according to a memo obtained by OneZero. But while Amazon’s Flex Drivers won’t be paid, Uber and Lyft each say they will give drivers up to 14 days of sick pay if they miss work due to coronavirus. Here’s Amazon’s full memo to drivers, from OneZero: Image: OneZero It’s worth noting that Amazon doesn’t specifically say in this memo that Flex drivers won’t be paid — but any time one of those drivers isn’t working, they aren’t getting paid. So if they’re homebound due to coronavirus, it doesn’t seem as if the company will be taking care of them in any way — unlike Amazon’s hourly workers, who will receive their regular pay even if they have to stay home. Amazon said in a statement to The Verge that its “top priority is protecting people’s health and we are actively supporting employees and contractors on an individual, case-by-case basis. We will continue evaluating next steps should we see a much broader impact.” Right now, most other companies that rely on gig workers also don’t provide restitution for those workers if they have to take time away due to coronavirus. On Friday, Sen. Mark Warner (D-VA) sent letters to Uber, Lyft, Postmates, Grubhub, DoorDash, and Instacart asking them to provide financial assistance to gig workers who may get sick or have to self-quarantine due to COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. “I strongly urge that you attempt to address the potential financial hardship for your workers if they are sick or have to self-quarantine during this time,” said Warner in the letters. “In order to limit the spread of COVID-19, it is critical that platform companies lead by example by committing that economic uncertainty will not be deterrents to their workers following public health guidance during the response.” Uber says will compensate drivers and delivery workers who are diagnosed with COVID-19 Uber said late Friday that it will compensate drivers and delivery workers who are diagnosed with COVID-19 or who are quarantined by a public health authority due to the novel coronavirus, The Wall Street Journal reports. Andrew Macdonald, Uber’s senior vice president of global rides and platform ops, wrote in an internal memo that the workers will receive compensation “for a period of up to 14 days,” and that it has already started in some of Uber’s markets, including Mexico and the UK, according to the WSJ. To qualify for the compensation, drivers will need to provide documentation, either showing that they’ve been diagnosed with the virus or that a public health official has placed them under quarantine, according to Business Insider. How much the drivers will be compensated is still to be determined. Uber tells the WSJ it’s not aware of coronavirus infections spreading between its drivers and riders. The company declined to say how many, if any, of its drivers had been diagnosed with the virus or placed under quarantine. Earlier Friday, an Uber spokesperson said the company was “exploring compensation for drivers who have been quarantined or diagnosed with coronavirus, whether independently, through a fund, or in partnership with peer companies,” in a statement given to The Los Angeles Times. Lyft says it is “actively planning for multiple scenarios” On Monday, Lyft said it was planning to compensate drivers as well, according to CNBC. On Friday, Lyft said it is “focused on taking appropriate actions and are actively planning for multiple scenarios,” in a statement to TechCrunch. “We stand ready to coordinate with government officials.” Both Uber and Lyft have also shared guidance with drivers to help prevent the spread of coronavirus. Postmates plans to brief Warner’s office on plans to “invest in the well being of our flexible workforce,” the company told TechCrunch. The company also added a “non-contact” delivery option on Friday to allow for meals to be dropped off or left by a customer’s door to cut down on direct contact between delivery drivers and Postmates users. Grubhub said it is “focused on prioritizing the health and safety of our drivers, diners and restaurant partners,” in a statement to The Los Angeles Times. “We share Senator Warner’s concerns about the safety and welfare of our drivers and look forward to working with the Senator on these important issues.” DoorDash said it “will continue to provide the latest public health guidance to consumers, Dashers and merchants and remind our community in affected areas of the delivery instruction feature, enabling requests for food to be left at the door along with a photo of where the food should be left through the app,” in a statement to The Los Angeles Times. The company also told The Los Angeles Times on Friday that it planned to talk with Warner that day. DoorDash is also letting customers ask to have deliveries left at their door, according to CNBC. Instacart remains fully operational across North America Instacart said it remains fully operational across North America in a statement provided to The Verge. It also said it’s “actively working with local and national authorities to monitor the situation as it unfolds. We’re adhering to recommendations from public health officials to ensure we’re operating safely with minimal disruption to our service, while also taking the appropriate precautionary measures to keep teams, shoppers and customers safe.” The company said it’s sharing health and safety information with its shoppers. Instacart has also rolled out a new “Leave at My Door Delivery” option. Instacart also tells The Verge that it lets in-store shoppers in select markets accrue sick pay. They can earn one hour of sick pay for every 30 hours worked, up to a maximum of 40 hours of sick pay per year. Related Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Uber and Lyft give drivers guidelines to help prevent coronavirus spread Update, March 9th, 5:08PM ET: Added new context about Lyft, Instacart, and DoorDash. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 9 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook