https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21049701/tp-link-deco-x90-x60-x20-wi-fi-6-mesh-router-price-specs-ces
TP-Link’s new mesh routers support Wi-Fi 6 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News TP-Link’s new mesh routers support Wi-Fi 6 New, 3 comments Faster speeds and more device connections By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Jan 5, 2020, 5:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: TP-Link’s new mesh routers support Wi-Fi 6 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email TP-Link Deco X90 mesh router system Image: TP-Link TP-Link has announced a refresh of its Deco line of mesh router systems that now includes support for the new Wi-Fi 6 protocol. The new Deco Mesh Wi-Fi 6 systems come in three different speed tiers, with prices ranging from $189.99 to $449.99. They will be available starting in March 2020. Wi-Fi 6 support brings a host of technologies and new acronyms to the table, but the most applicable one is that it allows for more simultaneously connected devices than Wi-Fi 5. TP-Link’s new routers also support the latest WPA 3 security standards. The top of the range is the $449.99 Deco X90, which has a tri-band system and can cover up to 6,000 square feet. TP-Link says that its “dynamic backhaul” technology can utilize all three bands (one 2.4GHz band and two 5GHz bands) to connect the mesh units for better speed and stability, and it supports up to 200 device connections. The X90 comes in a two-pack and includes a 2.5 Gbps WAN port for high-speed internet connections up to 1 Gbps. Related Wi-Fi 6: is it really that much faster? Occupying the middle tier is the Deco X60 system, which is also available in a two-pack and will cost $269.99. It has a dual-band system, so it doesn’t have as much bandwidth as the X90 and only covers 5,000 square feet in total. The X20 is rated to support 150 device connections. Grid View Finally, the least-expensive model is the Deco X20, which will be available in a two- or three-pack for $189.99 or $269.99, respectively. The X20 is a dual-band system, with lower throughput than either the X60 or X90. All three systems include TP-Link’s Deco Mesh Technology for roaming between nodes, adaptive routing, and self-healing in cases of interference. They are set up and controlled through TP-Link’s iOS and Android apps as well as through voice controls via Amazon’s Alexa. Interestingly, the new systems don’t support the powerline backhaul option that’s available on TP-Link’s Wi-Fi 5-based Deco P9 system. Correction: The Deco X60 actually has dual-band system, not a tri-band system like we originally stated. We regret the error. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns TP-Link’s new mesh routers support Wi-Fi 6 Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook