https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/23/21078258/art-club
Huawei developer conference postponed due to Wuhan coronavirus - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Huawei Huawei developer conference postponed due to Wuhan coronavirus New, 4 comments Shenzhen event pushed to late March By Sam Byford@345triangle Jan 23, 2020, 3:03am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Huawei developer conference postponed due to Wuhan coronavirus Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Getty Images Huawei has announced the postponement of a major developers’ conference because of safety precautions around the coronavirus outbreak in Wuhan, China. HDC.Cloud 2020 was planned to take place in Shenzhen on February 11th to 12th, but has been pushed back to March 27th-28th, according to the event’s website. 17 people are confirmed to have been killed by the SARS-like virus so far. The conference is enterprise-focused and serves as Huawei’s primary event for IT developers. “We want to share the ICT technologies and capabilities Huawei has developed over the past 30 years,” Huawei said to promote it. “Our Kunpeng and Ascend processors, in particular, will be powerful new engines for global developers.” Huawei is unlikely to be the last Chinese company to alter its upcoming events calendar, as the situation in Wuhan is being treated with serious countermeasures. Foxconn CEO Terry Gou has warned staff not to travel to mainland China during the upcoming Lunar New Year period, Reuters reports. The entire city of Wuhan, which has more than 11 million residents, is on lockdown as of Thursday morning, with airports and train stations closed until further notice. It’s unclear how effective the unprecedented containment effort will be. “To my knowledge, trying to contain a city of 11 million people is new to science,” Gauden Galea, the World Health Organization’s China representative Gauden Galea told the Associated Press today. “It has not been tried before as a public health measure. We cannot at this stage say it will or it will not work.” In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Huawei developer conference postponed due to Wuhan coronavirus Transportation shut down in city where new coronavirus originated View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook