https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050426/art-club
Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns New, 7 comments One place to manage security and privacy features By Dan Seifert@dcseifert Updated Jan 30, 2020, 1:45pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Ring Video Doorbell 2 Photo by Dan Seifert / The Verge Ring has announced that it is adding a new privacy dashboard to its mobile apps that will let Ring owners manage their connected devices, third-party services, and whether local police partnered with Ring can make requests to access video from the Ring cameras on the account. The company says that other privacy and security settings will be added to the dashboard in the future. This new Control Center is available now in both the iOS and Android versions of the Ring app. Ring has faced considerable criticism in recent weeks over its security and privacy practices. There have been reports of Ring cameras being “hacked” because owners reused passwords and logins that were obtained by bad hackers in data leaks from other services and didn’t have two-factor authentication set up. A Motherboard report detailed a host of other bad security practices in Ring’s systems, such as allowing multiple logins from various locations and IP addresses without informing the owners. Set up two-factor authentication and manage police department access in one place In a phone interview, Ring founder Jamie Siminoff says the new Control Center takes a lot of the things that Ring is already doing around security and privacy and puts them in a single location for customers to manage, while also adding a few new features on top. One of those new features is the ability to see who is currently logged into the account and log them out right from the app as well as manage third-party apps and services that have access to your Ring account. Other features include the ability to set up two-factor authentication (which Ring has had for some time) from the dashboard. Siminoff says that Ring is continuing to inform its customers of the importance of two-factor authentication on their accounts and will be making it an “opt-out” thing for new account setups, as opposed to the opt-in setup it currently is. But existing customers will not be forced to adopt two-factor on their existing accounts; Siminoff says doing this would require Ring to log everyone out of the system, and it would prevent access to Ring alarm systems and cameras until the customer opens the app, sets up two-factor, and logs back in. Ring currently only supports two-factor authentication through SMS, but Siminoff says the company will be adding other options in the future. The new Control Center in the iOS version of the Ring app Image: Dan Seifert In addition to providing more security controls, the new Control Center will tell Ring owners if the company has a partnership with their local police department and manage the ability for police to request video clips. Ring has close relationships with over 600 police departments across the country to provide them with footage from the Ring cameras that are installed by homeowners. These relationships have been a point of criticism for months, as many reports have come out on how police are able to access and use Ring footage and the issues this presents for marginalized communities. Information on what data Ring provides to police was released when Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA) asked Amazon (Ring’s parent company) for it and then made the company’s responses public. While the new Control Center does seem to provide an easy way for Ring owners to control their security and privacy options, some might not find it to be proactive enough on Ring’s part. The company is mostly sticking to its policy of informing customers about things like two-factor authentication and when login information is discovered on the dark web following data breaches, as opposed to making those things mandatory or forcibly changing customers’ passwords after a data breach happens. Update, January 30th, 2020, 1:45PM ET: This article was updated to reflect the fact that the new Control Center is now available and add a screenshot of what it looks like. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns This startup wants to put a tiny display on a contact lens View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook