https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21052281/art-club
TCL will enable variable refresh rates for some TVs later this year - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Circuit Breaker TCL will enable variable refresh rates for some TVs later this year New, 2 comments It’s also partnered with THX on a new game mode By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 6, 2020, 5:26pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: TCL will enable variable refresh rates for some TVs later this year Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge TCL plans to release new software upgrades for some TVs that could make them better for gaming and make it easier to manage your home audio setup, the company announced Monday at CES. Later this year, TCL says that it will enable variable refresh rates, which will sync the frame rate of your TV to what’s intended by the game. The update is slated for this spring, and it should arrive for select 2019 TCL Roku TV 6-Series models and select 2020 high-performance TVs. Support for variable refresh rates is becoming more common on PC monitors, and it’s starting to make its way to TVs. For example, Vizio just announced that its new line of 4K HDR TVs would support variable refresh rates. TCL also says that it’s partnered with THX to make a new standard for gaming modes for TVs called “THX Certified Game Mode.” It’s unclear exactly what this mode will look like on your TV, or how it differs from other TV game modes, but a TCL press release characterizes it this way: THX Certified Game Mode delivers fast response time and the most optimal viewing experience, allowing games to be experienced the way they were intended by the creators with rich, vibrant colors and better contrast in crisp 4K HDR resolution. TCL expects to launch TVs certified with the new game mode later this year in North America. TCL also says that, later this year, Roku is expected to let select 2019 TCL Roku TVs take advantage of HDMI eARC, part of the HDMI 2.1 standard. That should make managing your entertainment system easier. With HDMI eARC, if you connect your TV to a soundbar or AV receiver with HDMI, the audio source will be synced with the video source (your Blu-ray player or cable box, for example), as long as both your TV and the audio source have HDMI 2.1 ports. TCL says that it will let you talk to voice assistants directly through the microphones integrated into TVs launching in select regions this year. Related TCL is finally getting into the phone game with its own name TCL’s new soundbar uses reflectors for more immersive Dolby Atmos audio In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns TCL will enable variable refresh rates for some TVs later this year Comcast now has a Wi-Fi 6 router for its high-speed customers View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook