https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051382/art-club
Nvidia’s new GeForce driver includes highly requested max frame rate feature - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Gaming Tech Nvidia’s new GeForce driver includes highly requested max frame rate feature New, 18 comments Nvidia’s first 2020 driver update also improves VR game quality By Tom Warren@tomwarren Jan 6, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Nvidia’s new GeForce driver includes highly requested max frame rate feature Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Nick Statt / The Verge Nvidia is releasing a new GeForce game ready driver in time for CES 2020 today. While Nvidia’s 2019 driver updates have included some pretty big features, today’s update includes the highly requested max frame rate feature. Lots of games now include the ability to set a max frame rate or limit, but Nvidia is now allowing you to set this across all apps and games that use your GPU. It’s a useful addition if you’re using a G-Sync monitor and want to cap frames just under the display refresh rate, or more importantly, if you’re on a laptop and you want to save some battery life when you’re playing without power. Nvidia says it’s the number one requested feature from its GPU users. Alongside the frame rate limit, this driver also includes Variable Rate Super Sampling (VRSS). This improves image quality in VR games by separating shading rate and resolution to improve different parts of the frame that you’re focused on in VR. Nvidia is also including eight more G-Sync compatible displays to bring the total number of displays supported up to 90. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Nvidia’s new GeForce driver includes highly requested max frame rate feature Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook