https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21052177/art-club
Sony’s first TVs of 2020 include its smallest 4K OLED ever - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Sony Sony’s first TVs of 2020 include its smallest 4K OLED ever New, 11 comments Alongside another 8K monster By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 6, 2020, 5:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Sony’s first TVs of 2020 include its smallest 4K OLED ever Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email The X950H is one of three LCD TV ranges announced alongside Sony’s OLED lineup. Image: Sony Sony has announced its first TVs of 2020, and among them is the 48-inch Master Series A9S, the company’s smallest 4K OLED ever. At the top of the lineup is a new 8K LCD TV, the 85- or 75-inch Sony Z8H, followed by the A8H OLED, which is available in 65-inch and 55-inch variants. Rounding out Sony’s announcements today are two new LCD ranges, the X950H and X900H, which are available in sizes ranging from 49 inches to 85 inches. Sony isn’t the only TV manufacturer to have announced a 4K OLED TV smaller than 55 inches at this year’s CES; LG announced a 48-inch model of its own earlier today. Sony isn’t confirming this explicitly in its press release, but the reason for this is almost certainly that both companies are using the same panel from LG Display, which added a 48-inch model to its range for the first time this year. The announcement suggests we could soon see 48-inch versions from other OLED TV manufacturers, including Panasonic, Vizio, and Philips in Europe. Sony’s Z8H is its latest 8K TV. Image: Sony Since Sony is almost certainly using the same OLED panel as LG, it’s going to have to rely on its picture processing and sound tech to tempt customers to its model. For example, the A9S OLED includes Sony’s Acoustic Surface technology, which uses the panel to project sound, making it appear as though it’s coming from the screen. Picture processing is handled by the same X1 Ultimate processor from elsewhere in Sony’s range, and you also get support for Dolby Vision and Dolby Atmos. Granted, this isn’t quite Sony’s smallest OLED TV — back in 2007, the company announced the XEL-1, which was the world’s first OLED TV with a screen size of just 11 inches — but it’s certainly the company’s smallest 4K model. (Its 11-inch original had a resolution of just 960 x 540.) Following in LG’s footsteps There are a few new features to be found elsewhere in the range. Sony’s Z8H, its second 8K TV following the Z9G from last year, is the only TV in the lineup to include a backlit remote, and it also comes with new “Frame Tweeter” technology that sees its frame vibrate to create sound. Meanwhile, both it and the 4K X950H are compatible with Google Assistant, allowing you to control them with external devices equipped with the voice assistant. The Sony X950H also includes a new feature the company is calling “X-Wide Angle,” which it says should improve viewing angles. That’s normally a key disadvantage of LCD TVs like this compared to OLED models. Sony’s entire range announced so far runs on Android 9 Pie and features connectivity with Apple AirPlay 2, HomeKit, and Amazon Alexa-enabled devices and smart speakers. Unfortunately, much like LG, Sony isn’t ready to announce pricing or availability for its 2020 TV lineup just yet, which means we still don’t know how much these new 48-inch OLED TVs are going to cost. Sony says it plans to announce more details this spring. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Sony’s first TVs of 2020 include its smallest 4K OLED ever Toyota will transform a 175-acre site in Japan into a ‘prototype city of the future’ View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook