https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21175637/coronavirus-trump-national-emergency-pandemic-announcement
Trump issues emergency declaration for coronavirus pandemic - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus Trump issues emergency declaration for coronavirus pandemic The move opens access to $50 billion By Nicole Wetsman Mar 13, 2020, 3:37pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Trump issues emergency declaration for coronavirus pandemic Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Doug Mills-Pool/Getty Images President Donald Trump declared a federal state of emergency as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread throughout the US. The move frees up additional funding that will allow the government to address the effects of the pandemic. “I am officially declaring a national emergency,” Trump said today. “Two very big words.” The new coronavirus is spreading through the US, and several states have made emergency declarations. The World Health Organization has declared it a pandemic. Here are the basics: Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The declaration opens access to $50 billion, Trump said. The federal government is asking states to open emergency operation centers and is directing hospitals to enact their emergency preparedness plans. Trump claimed that Google is also creating a website that will screen people who think they have symptoms of COVID-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, and direct them to testing locations. According to Google, that is not the case: instead, Verily, a division of Google’s parent company, is creating a trial website for the Bay Area only. A parade of executives from private companies joined Trump in the press conference to discuss their efforts. Walmart, Walgreens, CVS, and Target CEOs said they will be using their store parking lots as coronavirus testing sites. In addition, a number of biotech and health care companies are joining the response. Becton Dickinson is ramping up its manufacturing capacity to make sure there are enough collection devices and testing equipment available. Quest Diagnostics, a testing company, said they will be using the Roche test as soon as this weekend. Signify Health, a provider of house calls, will provide its physicians as needed. LabCorp is working with academic medical centers, Quest, hospitals, and other labs to increase testing as much as possible. Executives for all of these companies spoke briefly at the Rose Garden today. “I trust that people around the country are looking on at this extraordinary public and private partnership to address the issue of testing with particular inspiration,” said Vice President Mike Pence. Trump also announced that he would be waiving interest on federal student loans. This federal state of emergency is different from the public health state of emergency that the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) declared at the end of January. That declaration gave HHS more flexibility to assist local and state health departments and modify Medicare and Medicaid requirements, among other powers. “I don’t take any responsibility at all” on testing shortages to date, Trump said The US response to the pandemic has been significantly slower and less effective than in some other countries because of problems in developing and rolling out tests for the virus. Trump had previously resisted calls to issue an emergency declaration, reportedly concerned that it would go against his assertions that the novel coronavirus outbreak was under control. Test capacity is gradually increasing. It has been far too difficult for people who suspect they have been infected with the virus to receive a test. “I don’t take any responsibility at all” on testing shortages to date, Trump said in today’s briefing. US hospitals are also concerned about shortages of equipment, like ventilators, needed to help patients with severe cases of COVID-19 breathe. “We’re in full inventory of all of our assets,” said Deborah Birx, who is coordinating the White House’s novel coronavirus response. So far, over 136,000 cases of COVID-19 have been reported around the world. Over 5,000 people have died. In the US, over 1,200 cases have been identified, and that number is expected to rise in the coming days. It’s impossible to predict when the outbreak will peak or how long it will last, said Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. Correction March 13th, 6:25PM ET: Google did not build a website, as Trump claimed. After publication, a spokeswoman for Verily, another division of Alphabet, Google’s parent company, clarified that a much smaller trial website will be built for people in the Bay Area. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Trump issues emergency declaration for coronavirus pandemic Delta is cutting more flights now than it did after 9/11 View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook