https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050758/lenovo-yoga-5g-snapdragon-qualcomm-8cx-x55-arm-windows-laptop-ces-2020
Lenovo’s Yoga 5G: the first ARM-powered Windows laptop with 5G - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech CES 2020 News Lenovo’s Yoga 5G is the first ARM-powered Windows laptop with 5G New, 8 comments Qualcomm’s 8cx processor and X55 5G modem come together for the first time By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 6, 2020, 2:30pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Lenovo’s Yoga 5G is the first ARM-powered Windows laptop with 5G Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Lenovo At Computex 2019, Lenovo teased that it was working on a 5G laptop that would feature Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8cx processor codenamed “Project Limitless.” At CES 2020, the company showed off a first look at the finished project: the Yoga 5G. From the outside, the Yoga 5G looks fairly bland, barely distinguishable from any of Lenovo’s other midrange laptops. But the internal specs are where things get interesting: instead of an Intel processor, it’s got Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 8cx (making it the second laptop announced to use the chip) as well as Qualcomm’s X55 5G modem. It’ll support millimeter-wave and sub-6GHz 5G networks as well as LTE. Image: Lenovo Lenovo says that it’s the first 5G computer powered by Qualcomm’s Snapdragon laptop processors. Admittedly, that’s not a difficult claim, given that there still aren’t a lot of laptops that use Qualcomm’s processors. But it means that the Yoga 5G will be an interesting test case for whether Qualcomm’s chips working in concert can deliver a comparable experience with cellular internet and battery life as they do on smartphones and tablets. (For what it’s worth, Lenovo is promising 24 hours of battery life off a single charge, although it’s not clear if that number is with 5G usage or not.) Interesting processor and modem aside, the rest of the spec sheet is fairly lackluster: a 14-inch FHD IPS display, 8GB of RAM, and either 256GB or 512GB of storage. There are also two USB-C ports, a headphone jack, and a Nano SIM slot for supporting 5G, although the Yoga 5G will also work with eSIMs. Image: Lenovo Given the relative paucity of ARM laptops on the market, it’s still difficult to tell whether the technology is there yet. Microsoft’s Surface Pro X showed that there’s still a ways to go on the software side when it comes to developers supporting ARM on Windows. And with the delayed Samsung Galaxy Book S missing a release date, there hasn’t been a consumer device with the stock 8cx on the market. Add in the uncertainty with 5G rollouts and competing networking standards (Lenovo hasn’t announced which carriers will support the Yoga 5G), and that’s a lot of untested next-generation technologies all crammed into a single device. The Lenovo Yoga 5G is set to release sometime this spring, starting at $1,499. We’ll have to wait to see if the rest of the tech world has caught up to Lenovo’s ambitions when it hits stores. Related Lenovo’s ThinkPad X1 Fold is a $2,499 PC with a folding OLED screen In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Lenovo’s Yoga 5G is the first ARM-powered Windows laptop with 5G Origin’s Big O doesn’t make you choose between console or PC gaming View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook