https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/12/21177465/call-of-duty-league-cdl-overwatch-owl-online-games-esports-coronavirus
Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online games - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Science Entertainment Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online-only games New, 10 comments Matches will still be broadcast By Andrew Webster Updated Mar 13, 2020, 1:19pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online-only games Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: Tyler Demogenes / Atlanta Faze The city-based Call of Duty League is shifting to a new format amid the ongoing novel coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, the league said that upcoming matches will be played online as opposed to large events hosted by cities across North America and Europe. “Call of Duty League has seen firsthand the power of our live events in our inaugural season, and will return to city-based competition in front of live audiences as soon as it is safe and logistically possible,” reads the statement. The league says that upcoming games will still be broadcast on YouTube for fans to watch, although it’s not clear when they will take place. The CDL says that “dates will be announced shortly.” The CDL is a relatively new league, which is attempting to merge the city-based structure of traditional sports with high-level Call of Duty play. So far, matches have been hosted in Minnesota, London, Atlanta, and Los Angeles. The Atlanta Faze and Chicago Huntsmen currently sit tied atop the league standings after the first four events. Related The coronavirus’ human impact on esports Can the new Call of Duty League be the NFL of competitive gaming? Additionally, the Overwatch League will be shifting its March and April matches online as well. (OWL and the CDL are sister leagues; they’re both owned by Activision Blizzard, operate under a similar city-based structure, and were part of a joint broadcast deal with YouTube.) OWL previously announced an end to live events in March and April, and the league says its new match schedule will be announced next week. As part of the new structure teams will be placed in three different groups based on geography, and matches are expected to begin on March 21st. “We plan to return to team-hosted homestand competitions in front of live audiences as soon as it is safe and logistically possible,” the league said in a statement. Other esports have been similarly effected. Just today, the top professional League of Legends competitions in Europe and North America announced that they would be playing games without fans present. Late last month, the Chinese LPL also announced that it would be playing games online instead of in-studio. While several traditional sports leagues have been forced to shut down entirely, the digital nature of esports like Call of Duty means that many leagues can still go forward with some adjustments. “In the interim, Call of Duty League is confident it will continue to deliver fans what they want: amazing competition between the best players, competing at the highest level, for the right to be considered the greatest team on earth,” the CDL said in a statement. Update March 13th, 1:20PM ET: Added details about the Overwatch League. In This Stream Overwatch League: all of the news about Blizzard’s ambitious e-sports league Call of Duty League and Overwatch League are shifting to online-only games Blizzard cancels all Overwatch League events in March and April View all 39 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook