https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/26/21195318/samsung-galaxy-s10-plus-android-smartphonecontrol-xbox-one-ps4-raspberry-pi-deal-sale-discount
Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Good Deals Reviews Tech Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time New, 1 comment Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi By Monica Chin@mcsquared96 Mar 26, 2020, 12:09pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Vlad Savov / The Verge If you’ve had your eye on Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus but haven’t fancied the $999 price tag, today is your lucky day. Verge readers can get an unlocked model of the 2019 flagship for just $579 over at Daily Steals. All you have to do is enter the code VERGEGXLYS10 at checkout. The S10 Plus has a 6.4-inch OLED screen that looks rich and vibrant, according to Verge deputy editor Dan Seifert. It’s also excellent for shooting video, with the ability to record in up to 4K at 60 or 30fps. It’s fun and fast to use, thanks to Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 855 processor. And with light usage, its battery lasts two days. One thing to note: most of the units Daily Steals is shipping only have three to six months of Samsung’s warranty left. Daily Steals says it will provide a similar warranty for the remainder of the year. Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Samsung Galaxy S10 Plus Was $999, now 58% off (with the code VERGEGXLYS10) $579 at Daily Steals Image: Remedy Entertainment Control Standard Edition is discounted over at Best Buy. Both the PS4 and Xbox One editions usually cost $59, but you can currently snag them for $29. Control is a supernatural thriller game made by the creators of Quantum Break. You play as Jesse Faden, the director of a government entity that studies and documents paranormal activity. Control Standard Edition (PlayStation 4) Was $59, now 51% off $29 at Best Buy Control Standard Edition (Xbox One) Was $59, now 51% off $29 at Best Buy While you’re at Best Buy, check out this discounted Raspberry Pi 4. It’s now $49, which is $10 off its original price of $59. Not only is this kit a decent price, but its 64-bit quad-core processor and 2GB of RAM allow it to easily run many different applications. Remember that Best Buy’s stores are only allowing curbside pickup for the time being. Image: Best Buy Raspberry Pi 4 2GB with CanaKit Power Supply Was $59, now 17% off $49 at Best Buy Verge Deals on Twitter Join our 30,000 followers, and keep up with our best tech deals with @vergedeals Follow us Next Up In Good Deals Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook