https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21126966/coronavirus-handshake-ban-mwc-disease-cold-flu
Handshake bans to stop the coronavirus might be overkill in most places  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus Handshake bans to stop the coronavirus might be overkill in most places Do a better job of washing your hands By Nicole Wetsman Feb 7, 2020, 9:39am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Handshake bans to stop the coronavirus might be overkill in most places Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Fear of the spreading coronavirus has led groups around the world to abandon niceties and recommend against handshakes, which are now discouraged at next month’s Mobile World Congress in Barcelona where high-profile companies are already dropping out due to coronavirus concerns. The gesture is also reportedly unwelcome at Andreessen Horowitz, a venture capital firm in San Francisco. Even youth soccer leagues in Canada nixed post-game handshakes. The rash of announcements sounds familiar: during the panic of the swine flu epidemic in the US, my high school sports team was given a similar edict: no high fives or handshakes after games. Instead, we tapped elbows. “Handshake bans are not a new idea,” says Brian Labus, assistant professor of public health at the University of Nevada, in an email to The Verge. “They seem to pop up every time there is a big outbreak of a new disease or even during severe flu season.” In 2014, a group of doctors called for bans on handshakes in health care settings to avoid spreading infections around. Hands can pass along germs that can cause disease, especially respiratory infections like colds or the flu. One study found that high-fives and fist bumps knock down the amount of bacteria that transfer from person to person, probably because of the smaller surface area and shorter amount of time the hands are in contact. The risk of a handshake, though, is related to hand hygiene practices, says Lisa Maragakis, senior director of infection prevention in the Johns Hopkins Health System. If people wash their hands regularly and sneeze into their elbows, handshakes won’t be as risky. Cutting out handshakes could be added on to the list of steps experts recommend people take to protect against cold and flu season, Maragakis says. “There are a package of things we recommend, including the flu vaccine, paying attention to hand hygiene, and respiratory etiquette.” Anything that might reduce the transmission of a potentially disease-causing bug is a good thing, she says. As a bonus, it’s already socially acceptable. It’s not uncommon to see people say that they’re not shaking hands, out of courtesy, because they’re getting over an illness. But right now, in the United States and Canada, declining to shake hands won’t have much of an impact on the spread of coronavirus because coronavirus isn’t actively circulating in any communities in either country. Turning down an outstretched hand won’t reduce the risk of someone catching something they probably weren’t going to get in the first place. Swine flu was actively spreading in the United States when I was in high school, for example, so there was a higher chance it could be passed around after a soccer game. That’s not currently true for coronavirus. Still, if handshaking is spreading regular colds and flu around, skipping one might reduce the risk of those diseases. It may only help a little, though. “It’s not going to matter all that much if you sit next to someone who is coughing and sneezing on you anyway,” Labus says. “People need to also remember to stay home if they are sick. That is going to make a much bigger difference.” Maragakis says that she’s never gone out of her way to recommend that people skip handshakes, anyway. “It’s not an unreasonable strategy, but it may be overkill,” she says. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Handshake bans to stop the coronavirus might be overkill in most places The Outer Worlds Switch release delayed due to the coronavirus View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook