https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21054731/unagi-electric-scooter-dual-motor-color-paint-job-customize
Unagi’s $990 electric scooters are getting more powerful — and more colorful - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Transportation CES 2020 News Unagi’s $990 electric scooters are getting more powerful — and more colorful New, 1 comment Customize your scooter with almost any combination of colors or patterns you can imagine By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk Jan 7, 2020, 10:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Unagi’s $990 electric scooters are getting more powerful — and more colorful Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Electric scooter company Unagi has a powerful new model to show off. The California-based startup has upgraded its flagship scooter with dual motors, enabling better torque and higher speed without sacrificing portability. And for the first time, customers can choose to customize their scooter with almost any combination of colors or patterns they can imagine. Unagi’s new E500 Dual Motor Scooter has two 250W motors, one in the front and one in the back, for a total of (you guessed it) 500W. The company’s first scooter came in two motor types, 250W and 450W, and was able to hit a top speed of 15.5 mph. This new configuration now delivers a top speed of 19 mph, with 32 newton meters of torque, enabling a rider of up to 200 pounds to cruise up steep hills with ease. “There are bigger scooters with more range and torque, but none of them are truly portable” Despite the addition of another motor, the scooter is still comparatively lightweight, clocking in at only 26 pounds. “There are bigger scooters with more range and torque, but none of them are truly portable,” Unagi CEO David Hyman said in an email. “The Boosted Rev, for example, is 46 lbs!! The reality is, very few commuters or urban users scoot more than 5 miles a day. We’re hell-bent focused on this market segment, giving them the best truly portable scooter on the planet — because well, it’s what we want.” The scooter has three drive modes: Beginner (9-11 mph); Advanced (13-15 mph); and Professional (15-19 mph). The lithium-ion battery allows for a range of up to 15.5 miles. And Unagi is using the same blend of aluminum and carbon fiber for the frame as it did with its first model. In addition, Unagi is unveiling what it describes as the industry’s first personalized paint job, allowing customers to design their scooters online to fit their personal vision. The original model only came in four colors: red, blue, white, and black. Now customers can choose from a variety of single or two-tone paint jobs, as well as numerous patterns. Hyman said that Unagi “impregnates the dye into the carbon fiber frame for a high-end custom paint job, versus a wrap or sticker approach.” This transforms the Unagi scooter into a “lasting personal work of art,” he added. Customers will have the ability to select custom colors for the handlebar, steer tube, and deck. And there will be limited run patterns available — from urban camouflage to tartan to Hawaiian themed — on an ongoing basis. Unagi, the Japanese word for freshwater eel, burst on the scene last year with a $990 electric scooter. It was based on a Chinese-made prototype called SWAN that never went into production. Hyman took over the rights to the design globally, hired a Chinese engineering team, and funded it to completion. Since then, it’s become a big hit with musicians like Kendrick Lamar, Chance the Rapper, Halsey, Steve Aoki, and teen pop megastar Billie Eilish — which has helped Hyman raise $3.5 million in venture capital cash. Last month, Hyman helped bail out a struggling rival scooter company, Unicorn. He said he would offer an Unagi scooter to anyone who ordered, but didn’t receive, a Unicorn scooter. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Unagi’s $990 electric scooters are getting more powerful — and more colorful PopSockets made its own wireless charging pad so you don’t have to take the PopSocket off your phone View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook