https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21128525/art-club
Samsung announces Galaxy Buds Plus earbuds with huge boost to battery life - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Samsung Headphones Samsung announces Galaxy Buds Plus earbuds with huge boost to battery life New, 14 comments Same design, but much better battery life and sound By Chris Welch@chriswelch Feb 11, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung announces Galaxy Buds Plus earbuds with huge boost to battery life Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung has just announced its second-generation true wireless earbuds, the Galaxy Buds Plus. They feature a design that’s more or less identical to the original Galaxy Buds but offer a number of improvements. The Galaxy Buds Plus are priced at $149 and will come in black, white, and blue color options. Specs for the Galaxy Buds Plus were leaked ahead of Samsung’s Unpacked event and revealed that the latest model makes impressive strides in battery life. They can last for up to 11 hours on a single charge, and the charging case extends that to 22 hours before everything needs to be juiced back up. In situations where the buds are completely dead, charging them for just three minutes over USB-C will get you an hour of playing time. Related Samsung’s Galaxy S20, Plus, and Ultra first look: cameras, 5G, and 120Hz screens Samsung unveils new foldable Galaxy Z Flip The Galaxy Buds Plus have dual dynamic drivers, so they should offer a step up in audio fidelity compared to the previous model. And you can see that there are now two external microphones (for a total of three), which Samsung says helps improve voice call performance. Image: Samsung There’s also now a shortcut for quickly launching Spotify on your phone: you just press and hold the left earbud to start listening to the popular music streaming app. One feature Samsung hasn’t brought to its latest earbuds is active noise cancellation. While that’s the headlining perk of the AirPods Pro (and other options like Sony’s 1000X earbuds), Samsung isn’t alone in deciding against it. It no doubt helps the Galaxy Buds Plus hit their substantially lower price point. If the past is anything to go by, Samsung will offer tempting promotions for its new earbuds and try to position them as the must-have companion for the Galaxy S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra. Photo by Nick Statt / The Verge In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung announces Galaxy Buds Plus earbuds with huge boost to battery life Live from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook