https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050529/art-club
Amazon Fire TV seatback screens are coming to BMW and FCA vehicles - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Transportation CES 2020 News Amazon Fire TV seatback screens are coming to BMW and FCA vehicles Fire TV in a Chrysler Pacifica, anyone? By Sean O'Kane@sokane1 Jan 6, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Amazon Fire TV seatback screens are coming to BMW and FCA vehicles Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images BMW and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will be the first automakers to feature seatback screens powered by Amazon’s Fire TV operating system, the tech giant announced on Monday at the 2020 Consumer Electronics show. Amazon wouldn’t say when the integration will happen or which models that BMW and FCA might equip with these new Amazon-powered seatback screens. It’s not hard to imagine that they’d start with their most family-focused vehicles, meaning large BMW SUVs like the X5, X6, or X7, and FCA minivans like the Pacifica. But we won’t know until Amazon or the automakers offer up more information. No information on when, or which cars, though The touchscreens will be able to either stream content over Wi-Fi or the onboard LTE connection, but there will also be an offline playback option so that parents don’t get slammed with a huge bill from data overages. Like many of its peers, Amazon has spent the last few years encroaching on the in-car entertainment experience, locking down a host of Alexa integrations (like the new ones announced today with Lamborghini and Rivian) and creating an Alexa-powered dashboard device of its own in the Echo Auto along the way. Related Amazon Echo Auto review: So... how dumb is your car? But sticking Fire TV screens in the seatbacks of cars is a far more serious move. It may not be as commanding a position to occupy as the car’s main infotainment screen — territory that Apple and especially Google have aggressively staked out in recent years — but it allows Amazon to run a full operating system inside a car, something it’s never really done before. Plus, it plays to one of Amazon’s strengths, which is creating kid-focused content with strong parental controls. Amazon is working with Garmin and automotive supplier Voxx to bring the Fire TV experience to the BMW and FCA vehicles, and the new partnerships are part of an expansion of its third-party program known as “Fire TV Edition” that was announced on Monday as well. Even with that help, it could take a while before a vehicle hits the road with these Amazon-powered seatback screens. Amazon’s hardware boss, Dave Limp, implied in an interview with The Verge that the integration process could take a while, which isn’t surprising given how far ahead in the product pipeline automakers tend to work. “We started Alexa [integration] three and a half years ago, and the new models are just coming to fruition at the end of last year, and now en masse this year,” Limp said. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Amazon Fire TV seatback screens are coming to BMW and FCA vehicles Mophie looks to the car to expand its line of batteries View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook