https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21133237/samsung-galaxy-s20-5g-ultra-fast-not-supported-carriers-coverage
Samsung’s regular Galaxy S20 doesn’t support ultra-fast 5G - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung Samsung’s regular Galaxy S20 doesn’t support ultra-fast 5G New, 9 comments But Verizon says a mmW S20 is coming later this year By Chris Welch@chriswelch Feb 11, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung’s regular Galaxy S20 doesn’t support ultra-fast 5G Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge All of Samsung’s Galaxy S20 phones — the just-announced S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra — support 5G. But at launch, only the latter two will be compatible with ultra-fast millimeter wave networks, like the one Verizon currently bases its entire 5G experience on. The standard Galaxy S20 only supports “sub-6” 5G used by AT&T, T-Mobile, and Sprint in the United States. Sub-6 5G offers better coverage and range than millimeter wave, but peak data speeds (upwards of 500 or 600Mbps) can’t match the gigabit performance you get with mmW — if you’re standing in exactly the right spot, at least. Since the S20 lacks millimeter wave tech, Verizon has decided not to sell it at launch; the biggest US carrier will only offer the S20 Plus and S20 Ultra when preorders open up this month. But eventually, Samsung will make an S20 that’s fully optimized for Verizon’s 5G network. The carrier says that model will arrive sometime in the second quarter of this year. So the long and short of it is this: if you want one of Samsung’s latest flagships and you also want the best possible 5G compatibility, get either the S20 Plus or Ultra. But if those phones are simply too big for you and you’re a Verizon customer, there is another option coming, but you’re in for a bit of a wait. Related Samsung’s Galaxy S20, Plus, and Ultra first look: cameras, 5G, and 120Hz screens Samsung unveils new foldable Galaxy Z Flip with glass that folds In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung’s regular Galaxy S20 doesn’t support ultra-fast 5G Live from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook