https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/17/21181541/soothing-live-animal-webcams-aquarium-zoo
Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Entertainment Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home Otters and jellies and bears, oh my By Mary Beth Griggs Mar 17, 2020, 12:25pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Jellyfish at the Monterey Bay Aquarium Photo by George Rose/Getty Images Part of The Verge Guide to Working at Home Human visitors have vanished from the halls of the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago, and the penguins are taking over. Since the aquarium temporarily shuttered its doors as a part of their coronavirus response, caretakers have been taking some of the aquarium’s penguins on adorable tours of the facility. The adventure continues! This morning, Edward and Annie explored Shedd’s rotunda. They are a bonded pair of rockhopper penguins, which means they are together for nesting season. Springtime is nesting season for penguins at Shedd, and this year is no different! (1/3) pic.twitter.com/VdxN3oQAfe — Shedd Aquarium (@shedd_aquarium) March 16, 2020 Shedd’s Twitter updates sent me down an underwater rabbit hole into the soothing world of animal distractions. The penguin’s excursions are one of the many ways that shuttered zoos and aquariums are keeping their public engaged. Thousands of miles away from the Shedd, the Monterey Bay Aquarium in California has a wide selection of live cams up and running. Though @MontereyAq is closed, our webcams are still streaming. Until we reopen, you can check in on the sea otters, sway with the kelp forest, find tranquility with the jellies and look for wildlife out on Monterey Bay: https://t.co/51aaLE8flr pic.twitter.com/kK9VNj4z31 — Julie Packard (@juliepackard) March 14, 2020 Most of the Monterey Bay Aquarium’s webcams are available during set hours, with reruns playing during downtime. (If you want to watch sea otters live, for example, you’ll need to tune in between 10AM and 10PM PT.) Personally, the jellies are my jam. If you’re more of a vertebrate person, the Smithsonian’s National Zoo has webcams available for giant pandas, lions, elephants, and naked mole rats. Yes, naked mole rats. If seeing their hairless little bodies calms you down, you do you. The Smithsonian’s webcams stream 24/7, but since the zoo shut down, they are not being staffed by volunteers — that means the animals might sometimes wander out of frame from time to time. But if you tune into the Houston Zoo’s cameras, you get a chance to direct the action. People tuning in to some of the live streams can click on a button in the lower right corner of the screen, allowing you to zoom in and around the habitats for about a minute. It’s a little finicky to use, and you may have to wait in line for your turn to direct the camera, but it’s still fun. Traveling a little farther afield, you could tune in to the watering hole at Djuma Game Reserve in South Africa. A worker keeps it on in the mornings and evenings and spots impalas, birds, and the occasional hippos and elephants. Most of the live streams are simply soothing — good things to glance at when you feel your anxiety rising, or just need to look at scenery that isn’t right outside your window. The Cincinnati Zoo is going one step further — they announced that every weekday at 3PM ET they’ll do a Facebook live stream showcasing an animal in their exhibits and include an activity for kids to follow along with at home. And if you want even more variety, Explore.org has a ton of animal live streams ranging from cuddling kittens to nesting bald eagles. They even have a prerecorded meditation of bears catching salmon (and other wildlife), to tide us all over until the internet’s beloved bear cam comes back this summer. The Verge Guide to Working at Home Tech strategies 7 How to work from home How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi How to choose a free videoconference app The do’s and don’ts of video conferencing How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference How to find keyboard shortcuts for Zoom How to help your remote workers feel involved Staying sane 6 How to use Netflix Party to stream movies with your friends How to watch movies with friends online Here’s a list of games you should play while you’re stuck inside avoiding the coronavirus The best movies and TV shows to stream when you’re working remotely How social networks can do good while we’re all trapped indoors How to order takeout safely and ethically Furniture and gadgets 3 My favorite adjustable tables for working from home The best laptop you can buy right now The best wireless headphones to buy right now Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook