https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21133631/huawei-china-spying-claims-us-officials-blacklist-5g
Feds claim Huawei can snoop on mobile networks - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Cybersecurity Huawei Feds claim Huawei can snoop on mobile networks New, 50 comments More specific details on the case against the Chinese manufacturer By Russell Brandom Feb 11, 2020, 4:35pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Feds claim Huawei can snoop on mobile networks Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge US officials say Huawei maintains backdoors into telecom networks across the world, according to a report by The Wall Street Journal. The news comes after years of escalating sanctions against the company — including an executive order in May that prohibited US companies from licensing tech to Huawei — but the justifications for those sanctions have remained vague and clouded by secrecy. Now, officials are getting specific, claiming the Chinese hardware manufacturer has maintained backdoors into some of the networks it builds, starting as early as 4G equipment sold in 2009. There’s also no hard evidence of the capability, but the claims are more specific than ever, and now coming from some of the nation’s top national security officials. “We have evidence that Huawei has the capability secretly to access sensitive and personal information in systems it maintains and sells around the world,” national security adviser Robert O’Brien told the Journal. There’s no indication of whether this capability has actually been used, although officials did tell the Journal that telecoms buying Huawei equipment are unaware of the company’s level of access. Reached by The Verge, Huawei security chief Andy Purdy denied the allegations. “We vigorously deny the allegation that we retain any such capability,” Purdy said. “We also deny that we have ever improperly accessed customer information or customer data.” The new US statements come after a surprise decision from the United Kingdom to allow Huawei to supply non-core equipment to the country’s networks. The US had lobbied heavily against Huawei’s inclusion in the run-up to 5G, but ultimately was unable to convince the country to entirely exclude the vendor. It’s unclear how other countries will respond to the allegations, but Huawei says the new claims aren’t surprising, given the last year of escalating pressure. “The US is committed to this, and I think it’s really prompted by the geopolitical situation between China and the US,” Purdy told The Verge. “The US is unwilling to consider the facts and the evidence, and they’re going to do whatever they can to block our ability to provide products to communication networks around the world.” Update 2/11 5:15PM ET: Updated with comment from Huawei. In This Stream Huawei vs. Trump: all the news about the Chinese phone maker’s messy relationship with the US Living a Google-free life with a Huawei phone Feds claim Huawei can snoop on mobile networks US attorney general says tech and telecom industries should invest in Huawei competitors View all 96 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook