https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/22/21077545/art-club
Transportation shut down in city where new coronavirus originated - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus Transportation shut down in city where new coronavirus originated The World Health Organization will meet again Thursday to decide if it will declare a global health emergency By Nicole Wetsman Jan 22, 2020, 5:24pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Transportation shut down in city where new coronavirus originated Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Getty Images Disease control officials in Wuhan, the Chinese city where the outbreak of the new and rapidly spreading virus began, announced that it’s shutting down transportation within the city and will close all airports and train stations. The city is home to over 11 million people. By Thursday evening, the travel ban had been extended to two more cities as officials began closing off the seven million residents of Huanggang, a city about 30 miles east of Wuhan, and nearby Ezhou, a city of one million. The virus is similar to SARS, which circulated around the world in 2002 and 2003. So far, the new virus has sickened over 500 people and killed 17. In addition to the transportation shutdown, companies like General Motors and Ford are restricting and suspending travel to Wuhan, and Olympic qualifying events have been moved out of the city. **MAJOR BREAKING**: Wuhan, ground zero for the China #coronavirus, to be on public transport lockdown as of Thursday 10am, reports @ChinaDaily. All flights and trains from Wuhan to be cancelled. Our @CBSNews team JUST got out late this evening. @CBSThisMorning @CBSEveningNews https://t.co/iz4Eo972Uh — Ramy Inocencio 英若明 (@RamyInocencio) January 22, 2020 The decision to shut down Wuhan and its two neighboring cities came as the World Health Organization’s (WHO) International Health Regulations Committee met in Geneva, Switzerland to decide if it would recommend that the WHO declare an international public health emergency in response to the virus. The committee could not come to a decision — it was split fifty-fifty — and will meet again tomorrow to review additional information on the outbreak, and vote again. The WHO supports the decision to shut down transportation in and out of Wuhan. “They’re taking action they think is appropriate. We stressed to them that by taking a strong action they will not only control the outbreak in their own country, but will minimize the chance of this outbreak spreading internationally,” said director general Tedros Adhanom in a press conference on the ongoing response to the virus. “We commend their actions, but since we have a team on the ground, we will get more information on the situation and the actions being taken,” he said. The chair of the novel coronavirus International Health Regulations Committee, Didier Houssin, said during the press conference that the committee struggled to come to a decision because the information is still limited on both the severity of the illness caused by coronaviruses and the way the virus spreads. The decision about whether or not to declare a public health emergency of international concern on new #coronavirus is one I take extremely seriously, and one I am only prepared to make with appropriate consideration of all the evidence. — Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (@DrTedros) January 22, 2020 Current evidence suggests that this new coronavirus passes from person to person through close contact. How well it passes between people is still unknown. The good news is that no cases where illness has passed from one person through a second person to a third person have been confirmed, said Mike Ryan, executive director of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme, during the press conference. “The issues that arise are the unknowns, such as whether there are other routes of transmission. At this time it is not possible to determine that absolutely,” he says. Right now the virus appears to spread person to person similarly to other coronaviruses: people who are sick may pass on the virus to family members or health care workers by sneezing or coughing, through what’s called droplet transmission. “If the route is due to close personal contact and droplet transmission, it is containable,” Ryan said. The virus causes a range of symptoms, from mild cold-like symptoms to severe respiratory distress and death. The deaths, though, have been primarily in older adults who also had other conditions (like heart disease) that might have put them more at risk. “The fatality rate is still a question mark. That’s one aspect that we would like to have more information on,” Houssin said. Update January 23rd, 5:43AM ET: Article updated with the closing of Wuhan’s neighboring cities. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Transportation shut down in city where new coronavirus originated Rapid global response to the new coronavirus shows progress made since SARS View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook