https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050048/hp-15-inch-spectre-x360-smaller-bezels-trackpad-intel-10th-gen-update-ces-2020
HP’s Spectre x360 15 gets upgraded with smaller bezels and a good trackpad - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News HP’s 15-inch Spectre x360 gets upgraded with smaller bezels and a good trackpad New, 3 comments Just like last year’s updated 13-inch model By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Jan 5, 2020, 8:00pm EST Photography by Becca Farsace Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: HP’s 15-inch Spectre x360 gets upgraded with smaller bezels and a good trackpad Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Last year, HP overhauled the 13-inch Spectre x360 convertible laptop with some much-needed improvements: a slimmed-down design, reduced bezels, and a functional trackpad. At CES 2020, the company is bringing those same improvements to the larger 15-inch model, too. Much like last year’s Spectre x360 13, the differences between the old x360 15 and the new one are drastic: HP has massively reduced the bezels on the 2020 model, resulting in a device that’s 13 percent smaller than the previous generation. Plus, despite the vastly smaller size, HP is still offering the excellent-looking OLED screen options it introduced last year. The old Spectre x360 15 (left) compared to the new model (right). Also improved (thankfully) is the trackpad, which, like HP’s other recent laptops, uses Windows Precision Drivers and is therefore no longer terrible to use. The fact that this is still a notable change in the year 2020 speaks volumes. The specs are also getting a boost: the new Spectre x360 15 can be configured with up to Intel’s 10th Gen six-core Core i7 processor (although that comes from Intel’s 14nm Comet Lake lineup, not the company’s newer 10nm Ice Lake line) along with the latest discrete Nvidia GPUs. The rest of the design is virtually unchanged: there are still two Thunderbolt 3 ports, a USB-A port, and an HDMI port. There’s also a physical webcam kill-switch as well as a separate number pad on the keyboard. Between the new trackpad and the slimmed-down design, the upgraded Spectre x360 15 is effectively just a 15-inch version of the 13-inch model in nearly every respect — which is a good thing. There’s no price or release date yet, but HP will presumably announce those in the coming weeks. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook