https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21050789/lg-8k-tv-oled-lcd-thinq-ai-instaview-refrigerator-washer-dryer-ces-2020
LG’s CES 2020 press conference tried to convince us of its AI future - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Featured Videos Tech CES 2020 News LG’s CES press conference tried to convince us of its AI future The company is doubling down on its support of the ‘real 8K’ standard By Barbara Krasnoff Jan 6, 2020, 2:42pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG’s CES press conference tried to convince us of its AI future Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email In its press conference at CES today, LG presented its upcoming lines of TVs and kitchen appliances for the coming year. This year, the emphasis was on AI: in fact, the first 20 minutes of the presentation pushed a speculative look at the future of AI as a consumer service. Once it got down to its product announcements, LG started with its newest kitchen appliances. First up was the LG ThinQ washer and dryer. According to LG, the washer will not only detect the volume and weight of laundry but also the type of fabric used in each load. It can also automatically select the optimal wash cycle. With smart pairing, the washer will automatically send the correct setting to the dryer. Another laundry product called the LG TwinWash will include two washers, one on top of the other, for small loads and larger loads simultaneously. Passing on to the kitchen, LG is presenting new models of its InstaView fridges, which feature 22-inch panels that turn transparent so you can look inside without wasting the cold. The presentation featured a fridge called InstaView with Craft Ice, which makes slow-melting ice balls (in case that’s important to you). If you want to see what’s in your oven, LG has announced the InstaView Oven, a convection oven that lets you see what’s going on inside. It includes air fry features and accepts recipes and cooking instructions from your phone. A Signature wine cellar lets you see your wine collection without opening the door, and it includes multi-temperature control. LG also talked about its new Proactive Customer Care, which will use AI to help prevent problems (by, say, warning customers if they’re putting too much soap in the washer) and automatically alerting them to problems that may need repair. On the TV front, LG introduced six new models of what it calls “real 8K” TVs, which adhere to the Consumer Technology Association’s definition of 8K (as opposed to the certification that Samsung recently announced from the 8K Association. They sport LG’s Alpha 9 Gen3 AI processors, which it says will take advantage of the screens’ over 33 million pixels to optimize both picture and sound quality. The company also stated that four of its premium LCD models will feature LG NanoCell technology, which is developed to produce deeper colors at wider angles, along with two 8K models. In all, LQ promised 18 different ultra-large models across its 2020 lineup and 13 new OLED models that range from 48 inches to 88 inches. Other announcements included the NextGenTV, a new internet protocol broadcast standard, which LG said about 60 markets were expected to launch over the next year. Other features mentioned include ThinQ AI to allow hands-free voice control, enhanced gaming displays using Nvidia’s G-sync technology, and a 20mm-thin display as part of LG’s gallery series. The LG Signature OLED R rollable TV that has been the centerpiece of its previous presentations got only a brief mention. (It’s promised — again — for the market this year.) No prices or ship dates were given. Perhaps LG will develop an AI bot to determine that stuff when these products are announced again next year. The Verge on YouTube Exclusive first looks at new tech, reviews, and shows like Processor with Dieter Bohn. Subscribe! In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns LG’s CES press conference tried to convince us of its AI future Lenovo’s Yoga 5G is the first ARM-powered Windows laptop with 5G View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook