https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21046403/art-club
Philips Hue gets three new outdoor lights - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Philips Hue gets three new outdoor lights New, 7 comments A spotlight, a wall light, and a path light By Jacob Kastrenakes@jake_k Jan 7, 2020, 12:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Philips Hue gets three new outdoor lights Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Philips Hue Appear wall light Photo: Signify At CES this week, three new outdoor lights are being unveiled for Philips Hue: a path light, a spotlight, and a wall-mounted fixture with lights that shine up and down. Outdoor Hue light fixtures started appearing in 2018, and there are already eight or so options, ranging from a floodlight to different styles of wall lights. These new models offer more style options more than they expand the lineup into new areas. The new options include: Econic pedestal light: a small path light, for $129.99 Lily XL spotlight: a larger version of the existing Lily spotlight, for $139.99 Appear wall fixture: a cylindrical fixture with color-changing lights on the top and bottom that emit a triangle of light in either direction, for $139.99 Image: Philips All three of the new options include Bluetooth, so you won’t need a Hue hub to use them. Signify, which makes Philips Hue, has been building Bluetooth into new Hue products since last year, making the lighting system easier to start using. Two other Hue updates are being announced today. The Hue Play HDMI Sync Box, which syncs your lights with what’s happening on your TV, is gaining voice control support through Alexa, Siri, and Google Assistant. That’s supposed to arrive this spring. The Hue app is also getting an update: it’ll now display the battery level of accessories, and the zones feature — which gives you a way to group your lights within rooms — is coming out of beta and can now work with all lights and accessories. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Philips Hue gets three new outdoor lights Atmos Faceware makes clean air an expensive accessory View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook