https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21128857/art-club
Nvidia is no longer attending Mobile World Congress, citing coronavirus risk - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech MWC 2020 Nvidia is no longer attending Mobile World Congress, citing coronavirus risk New, 4 comments The graphics giant was hosting 10 sessions and an “AI Innovation Center” By Sean Hollister@StarFire2258 Feb 7, 2020, 8:31pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Nvidia is no longer attending Mobile World Congress, citing coronavirus risk Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Stefan Etienne / The Verge The world’s biggest mobile trade show just took another blow — graphics giant Nvidia, one of the conference’s sponsors, just announced it’s not sending employees to Mobile World Congress 2020 in Barcelona due to the “public health risks around the coronavirus” that have been putting off some other exhibitors and attendees too. Nvidia’s the fourth exhibitor to partially or fully drop out of MWC 2020, and the first US company to do so, following Ericsson, LG, and ZTE. But Nvidia was also a major sponsor of the conference, and had partnered with the GSMA conference organizing body to host an entire track of 10 sessions and roundtables around artificial intelligence. It also planned to welcome visitors to an “AI Edge Innovation Center” that would “put attendees at the intersection of AI, 5G and edge computing.” No Nvidia means less AI talk at MWC 2020 It’s not clear if those sessions and exhibit will still be on offer, but it’d be hard without Nvidia’s employees. We’re also curious how much money Nvidia sunk into the show. “We’ve been looking forward to sharing our work in AI, 5G and vRAN with the industry. We regret not attending, but believe this is the right decision,” reads a portion of Nvidia’s statement. Nvidia and the GSMA didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. Qualcomm, Lenovo, Motorola, Xiaomi, Vivo and Honor all previously told The Verge that they plan to attend the show, but it certainly sounds like this year’s MWC will be a much different show. Related Coronavirus threatens to throw world’s biggest phone show into chaos In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Nvidia is no longer attending Mobile World Congress, citing coronavirus risk The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook