https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21116008/art-club
Google searches for coronavirus will now show you safety tips - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Health Google searches for coronavirus will now show you safety tips The company has officially launched an SOS Alert for the outbreak By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 30, 2020, 7:18pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Google searches for coronavirus will now show you safety tips Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Searching Google for “coronavirus” will now send users to a curated search results page with resources from the World Health Organization, safety tips, and news updates, Google and the WHO announced today. This effort, which is just one of Google’s SOS Alerts, is now live. Google also announced a $250,000 direct grant from Google.org, the company’s philanthropic arm, that will go to the Chinese Red Cross to help support coronavirus relief efforts. To help support relief efforts, @Googleorg issued a $250,000 direct grant to the Chinese Red Cross. Additionally we launched an internal campaign inviting Googlers to donate. So far, https://t.co/ldmgae16C7 and Googlers have raised over $800K USD (3.5M rmb). — Google Communications (@Google_Comms) January 30, 2020 The WHO declared today that the coronavirus outbreak is a global public health emergency. Since the outbreak started in December, there have been over 8,000 confirmed cases and more than 170 deaths. The first person-to-person transmission of coronavirus was reported in the US earlier today; as of January 29th, five people in the US have been confirmed to have the disease and 92 people are under investigation, according to the CDC. Multiple airlines have suspended or canceled flights in the near future as a safety precaution, and some companies, including Google and Tesla, have closed down their offices or operations in China due to the outbreak. We’re tracking the coronavirus outbreak closely at The Verge. We’ve got an explainer about it right here, and you can read all of our coronavirus coverage here. Related Google's SOS Alerts are a less annoying version of Facebook’s Safety Check Google’s more useful SOS alerts will navigate you away from danger In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Google searches for coronavirus will now show you safety tips Pilots just sued American Airlines to force a halt to China flights View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook