https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21046799/art-club
Roland’s new hardware is a ‘plug and play’ mini studio for smartphone vloggers - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News Creators Roland’s new hardware is a ‘plug and play’ mini studio for smartphone vloggers By Dani Deahl@danideahl Jan 6, 2020, 9:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Roland’s new hardware is a ‘plug and play’ mini studio for smartphone vloggers Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Roland Music hardware company Roland unveiled its first consumer hardware for vloggers ahead of the 2020 Consumer Electronics show. Called Go:Livecast, the little box connects with smartphones to operate like a mini broadcast studio, letting online creators easily manage the basics of live video production. The Go:Livecast has a minimal interface and is meant to be approachable for everyone, no matter their skill set. Roland says it has a “plug and play” setup — just connect a smartphone and headphones for sound monitoring and you’re ready to stream. There’s scant inputs and outputs. One side lets you plug in headphones to monitor sound, the other side has a XLR 1/4 combo input with a phantom power switch if you want to use other sound sources like a microphone or electronic instrument. On the back is a microUSB out for charging and a microUSB out to mobile. Image: Roland The hardware portion is for things like quickly adjusting volumes, muting audio, and inserting pre-recorded clips into livestreams. The companion app then lets users access loads of video features. Streamers can log in to their preferred platform and start streaming through the app, monitor comments in real time, and even apply a filter for a “polished, softened look.” The app also automatically detects portrait and landscape mode based on the smartphone’s position, and can handle multiple angles and split-screen views by connecting another smartphone or tablet camera with Wi-Fi. Roland is clearly catering to online content creators who don’t (or can’t) go all-in on their production but want something that’s a little more up to snuff. This is a big pendulum swing for the company as it’s stayed in the pro field with streaming gear in the past. Even last year’s VR-1HD mixing deck — also marketed as a “plug and play” broadcast studio — is still meant for professionals using multiple cameras, and comes with a hefty price tag of $1,495. Livestreaming has become a massive market, with successful online personalities inking book deals and raking in millions of concurrent views for platforms like YouTube Live, Twitch, and Mixer. So, a simple, affordable device that easily allows people to up their production game a bit seems like a no brainer. The Roland Go:Livecast will be available later this month for $249.99 at Amazon and authorized Roland retailers. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Roland’s new hardware is a ‘plug and play’ mini studio for smartphone vloggers Canon announces the EOS-1D X Mark III because the DSLR still isn’t dead View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook