https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21035595/art-club
Comcast launches Wi-Fi 6 gateway, makes xFi Advanced Cybersecurity free - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Comcast now has a Wi-Fi 6 router for its high-speed customers New, 6 comments The company is also making its security service free if you lease an xFi router By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 6, 2020, 5:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Comcast now has a Wi-Fi 6 router for its high-speed customers Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Comcast Comcast announced a new version of its xFi Advanced Gateway, one of its modem / router combo products you can lease with your Xfinity internet, today at CES. This new version has support for Wi-Fi 6, which is optimized for faster speeds and to better handle the ever-growing number of networked devices we have in our homes. In addition to Wi-Fi 6, Comcast says the new router has four dual-band antennas that support both the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands, one 2.5 Gbps Ethernet port, three 1 Gbps Ethernet ports (the previous version had two), and Bluetooth LE and Zigbee radios to connect to IoT devices. It also comes in a nice-looking new white — the previous generation came in black. And if you use Comcast’s xFi Pods to make a mesh Wi-Fi network at your home, Comcast says those Pods will still work with the new Advanced Gateway. Comcast tells The Verge the gateway will start rolling out in January. Image: Comcast The new gateway isn’t available to all Comcast customers, though — you’ll have to be on one of Comcast’s plans with speeds of 300 Mbps or more per month. But if you are on one of those plans, the new gateway will cost the same to lease as what you’re already paying today, Comcast’s VP of xFi and Digital Security Dave Puckett told The Verge in an interview. Comcast also announced that its xFi Advanced Cybersecurity, which offers additional security protections for your network, will be available to customers who lease an xFi gateway at no extra charge. Comcast says the now-free service will be rolling out to customers over the coming weeks, and new Xfinity customers will have the service turned on by default. Once it has rolled out to you, you can manage the service through the xFi mobile app. Image: Comcast XFi Advanced Cybersecurity was announced at CES last year as a $5.99-per-month subscription on top of what customers were already paying for internet and to lease the router from Comcast. If you were already paying for it, Puckett said that you won’t have to anymore. But if you’re a Comcast internet subscriber and use your own modem or router, you won’t be able to get xFi Advanced Cybersecurity at all — it’s a benefit offered only to Comcast subscribers who also lease a Comcast gateway. Related Faster Wi-Fi officially launches today Wi-Fi 6: is it really that much faster? Comcast’s Xfinity xFi Advanced Security offers customers better internet protection for $5.99 per month In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Comcast now has a Wi-Fi 6 router for its high-speed customers Toyota will transform a 175-acre site in Japan into a ‘prototype city of the future’ View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook