https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21083550/art-club
If you want to watch Super Bowl LIV in 4K HDR, here’s what you need - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: How-to Reviews Entertainment Here’s what you need to watch the Super Bowl in 4K HDR New, 38 comments Helping you find the right tech and the best deals without signing up for cable By Cameron Faulkner@camfaulkner Updated Jan 30, 2020, 9:35pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Here’s what you need to watch the Super Bowl in 4K HDR Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Rich Graessle/PPI/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images Super Bowl LIV is coming up this Sunday, February 2nd on Fox, between the San Francisco 49ers and the Kansas City Chiefs. As if that matchup wasn’t reason enough to watch, this year’s Super Bowl will broadcast in 4K HDR. If you want to watch it in 4K HDR, we’re going to tell you how. But bear with us — this is more confusing to walk through than it should be. Related The Super Bowl is streaming in 4K HDR for the first time - here’s how Fox Sports is pulling it off It goes without saying that you’ll need a 4K HDR TV to view the game at the highest fidelity. You’ll also need a fast internet connection that supports at least 25MB/s download speeds. Last, you’ll need a streaming device that can support 4K HDR — but not just any one will do. Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K and Fire TV Cube are confirmed to get the 4K HDR (HDR10, specifically) feed via Fox Sports’ app. At the time of publishing, Fox Sports’ website says the Roku Premiere, Roku Premiere+, Roku Streaming Stick+, Roku Ultra, and all 4K HDR TVs with Roku’s operating system built-in will get it, too. However, a Fox Sports spokesperson told The Verge that those Roku devices aren’t yet working with the high fidelity stream. If you have a Roku device, or you were planning to buy one for the game, the lack of assurance that you’ll get 4K HDR is worrying, though the broadcaster is pushing for them to work by kickoff time. And while you may have heard (including in an earlier version of this post) that Roku would be removing the Fox apps you’ll need to stream the Super Bowl, you should know that’s no longer the case — the companies reached an agreement late Friday to get things working. Roku’s 4K HDR devices may get the 4K HDR stream, but a Fox Sports spokesperson says it doesn’t yet function properly The Apple TV 4K will get a 4K stream via the Fox Sports app, though due to some platform issues, it will not be in HDR. If you own the Nvidia Shield TV or Google Chromecast Ultra, you will presumably get the 1080p stream through Fox Sports’ app, though these devices aren’t listed on its site as being supported at all. Related The NFL in 4K HDR gets off to a rocky start on Fox Sports But there’s another route to take to get a 4K stream. Live TV streaming service fuboTV claims it will offer Fox’s 4K feed of the Super Bowl to a large range of devices, including those listed above, and it offers a free seven-day trial. It will broadcast in the HLG HDR format, and to have that come through, you’ll need a few things: a TV that supports HLG HDR (most new Samsung, LG, Sony, Vizio, and TCL Smart TV models support it, and fuboTV’s app is available on some of them), and an HLG-ready box to get HDR colors. Amazon’s Fire TV Stick 4K and Fire TV Cube are the easiest, and most affordable, option. If you’re missing any of those ingredients, your device will likely just display SDR colors. And should there be any complications (it can happen!) with fuboTV’s handling of the 4K feed, you’ll probably be stuck with the same 1080p feed you’d get through the Fox Sports app. Get a fuboTV trial fuboTV will host a 4K stream of the Super Bowl for a wide range of devices, and it offers a free seven-day trial Sign up As of right now, there are no options to watch the Super Bowl in 4K HDR if you have a Roku device, though it’s possible that a deal will be inked just before the game is aired. We’ll update this article if anything changes. Photo by Stephen Lew/Icon Sportswire via Getty Images A listing of the available Amazon devices follows, along with a few TV recommendations to suit different needs and budgets. If you already own a 4K HDR TV Got a TV and looking for deals on an Amazon Fire TV device? All of Amazon’s options that support 4K HDR are currently discounted, and if you’re a Prime member, you can get them delivered before the game. If you’re buying on a real last-minute basis, you’ll likely find them at your local Whole Foods Market, though the price might not match. Amazon Fire TV Stick 4K with Alexa Voice Remote Available at Amazon for around $15 less than usual $49.99 $34.99 Amazon Fire TV Cube with Alexa Voice Remote Get this $20 discount at Amazon. This model doubles as an Echo speaker, and you’ll also get an ethernet adapter in the box, in case you’d prefer to use a faster wired connection. $119.99 $99.99 A few quick TV recommendations For just a few hundred dollars, you can find an affordable TV with the software necessary to watch the 4K HDR stream, like the Fire TV Edition televisions that essentially have Amazon’s 4K set-top box inside of them. And if you have the money to spend, there are plenty of more expensive models that warrant their costs, like QLED and OLED televisions. Starting with the most value-packed TV for this particular occasion, Toshiba’s 55-inch 4K HDR Fire TV Edition television with Dolby Vision costs $329.99 (usually $449.99) at Best Buy, and comes with a free third-gen Amazon Echo Dot smart speaker. With this model, you won’t need to buy a Fire TV streaming device as well, as it already has one built in. The same model costs $379.99 at Amazon. For the 65-inch version of this model, you’ll pay $429.99 at Best Buy. Image: TCL TCL’s 6-series TV with Roku software built in has been easy to recommend in the past. My colleague Chris Welch called the 2018 version the best 4K HDR television available for less than $1,000. The 2019 version starts at $549.99 (the 55-inch version) and appears to be even better, with slimmer bezels and quantum dot technology to improve the color accuracy and contrast, making the LED panel look more like an OLED. If you want the 65-inch TV, it’ll cost you $699 at Amazon. While there are plenty of other TVs to recommend around the $600-$1000 price range, our next one goes beyond that — but for good reason. LG’s B9 OLED 4K HDR television can be recommended for its picture quality and design. Compared to LED and LCD panels, OLED is unmatched when it comes to contrast and color accuracy. This model also supports Apple HomeKit and AirPlay 2, as well as Nvidia G-Sync, with variable refresh rates up to 120Hz. If you want to invest in a TV that you’ll probably get a lot of enjoyment out of, LG’s OLEDs are worth looking into. Right now, the 55-inch LG B9 is $1,296.99 at B&H Photo and Amazon, and $1,299.99 at Best Buy. The 65-inch version is $1,796.99 at B&H Photo and Amazon, and $1,799.99 at Best Buy. Both prices match the lowest that we’ve seen so far. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. Update, February 1st at 2:23AM ET: Updated to reflect that Fox’s apps will stay on Roku after all. Just a few hours after we initially published this guide, Roku notified its users that it would pull all seven of its Fox apps from its platform, including Fox Sports. Roku told The Verge that the reason for the channel removal was due to a carriage dispute between it and Fox. However, the companies reached an agreement late Friday and they will stay after all. Next Up In Reviews Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook