https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/5/21125068/att-5g-low-band-cities-availablity-network-range-speed
AT&T’s low-band 5G now live in 13 more cities including Boston, St. Louis, and Atlantic City - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech AT&T AT&T’s low-band 5G now live in 13 more cities including Boston, St. Louis, Atlantic City, Dayton, and Wichita It’s now available in 32 cities total By Kim Lyons Feb 5, 2020, 2:56pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: AT&T’s low-band 5G now live in 13 more cities including Boston, St. Louis, Atlantic City, Dayton, and Wichita Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge AT&T has added 13 more cities to its low-band 5G network, including large metro areas like Boston, St. Louis, and Atlantic City, and smaller cities like Wichita, Kansas and Dayton, Ohio, bringing the total number of cities on the list to 32. The carrier continues to expand its sub-6GHz network, which has broad range but slower speeds than the mmWave version of its 5G, which thus far AT&T has limited to business customers. A quick recap of AT&T’s different 5G brands 5GE — really just upgraded LTE 5G — uses low-band 850MHz spectrum technology, similar to T-Mobile’s 600MHz network, which will comprise the bulk of the carrier’s 5G network across the US. 5G Plus — mmWave 5G, based in high-band radio frequencies The full list of cities newly live on the low-band 5G is as follows: California: Bakersfield, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, Oxnard, Modesto Georgia: Liberty Kansas: Wichita Massachusetts: Boston, New Bedford Maryland: Frederick Missouri: St. Louis New Jersey: Atlantic City Ohio: Dayton According to AT&T, 50 million customers now have access to its 5G network, and it’s on pace to expand to the rest of the country in the first half of 2020. Its 5G+ mmWave version is live in parts of more 35 cities so far, but it has its limitations — it doesn’t pass through buildings well. (AT&T still has yet to make that portion of its network widely available, though.) Update February 5th, 3:45PM ET: The 13 cities are now live on AT&T’s 5G network. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook