https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/23/21175407/remote-work-working-from-home-guide-how-to-tips-video-conference-calls-laptops-zoom-slack
A guide to working at home using Zoom, Slack, and other tools - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this on Linkedin Share this on Reddit Share this on Pocket Share this on Flipboard Share this on Email The Verge Guide to Working at Home How to work from home productively and comfortably All Stories Expand All All Stories Tech strategies 7 How to work from home How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi How to choose a free videoconference app The do’s and don’ts of video conferencing How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference How to find keyboard shortcuts for Zoom How to help your remote workers feel involved Staying sane 7 How to use Netflix Party to stream movies with your friends How to watch movies with friends online Here’s a list of games you should play while you’re stuck inside avoiding the coronavirus The best movies and TV shows to stream when you’re working remotely How social networks can do good while we’re all trapped indoors Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home How to order takeout safely and ethically Furniture and gadgets 3 My favorite adjustable tables for working from home The best laptop you can buy right now The best wireless headphones to buy right now Collapse All It’s difficult to try to keep things normal when the situation isn’t normal — especially during global crises like the COVID-19 pandemic. One of those things includes adjusting our jobs to working from home, when we’re used to going into the office every day. In these days of video conferencing, texting, and file sharing, it is thankfully possible for many people to move their workdays to home. In fact, remote working has been a part of many peoples’ lives for years, so while the adjustment can feel difficult, it isn’t impossible. We’re taking the tech expertise of our staff, and the experience of many of our writers and editors, to put together tips and advice on working from home. This includes both general information on working from home, dealing with video conferencing, and finding a good standing desk, but also quick tips on how to use Zoom to hide your messy room and how playing a soothing animal video in the background can keep you centered. We’ll continue to add to this guide in order to bring you as much information on working at home as possible. Stay tuned — and stay safe! Start here How to work from home Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook