https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/10/21131178/thom-browne-galaxy-z-fashion-edition-foldable-handset
Fashion edition Galaxy Z Flip leaks in weirdo promo - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech Samsung Fashion edition Galaxy Z Flip leaks in weirdo promo New, 10 comments The result of a collaboration with Thom Browne By Jon Porter@JonPorty Feb 10, 2020, 8:01am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Fashion edition Galaxy Z Flip leaks in weirdo promo Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: @h0x0d A new promotional trailer for Samsung’s foldable Galaxy Z Flip has leaked online, confirming a fashion-focused Thom Browne Edition of the device. The ad, which was posted to Twitter by @h0x0d, shows the device with the brand’s signature red, white, and blue stripe down its rear, but doesn’t list any spec differences between it and the regular Z Flip. Despite finding the time to spend 90 seconds showing a model slowly walking towards camera, there’s also no mention of price, which is likely to be more than the rumored $1,400 price tag of the handset’s regular edition. Reports of a Samsung collaboration with the New York-based fashion designer have been around for as long as we’ve known about Samsung’s second foldable. The partnership is presumably meant to widen the Z Flip’s appeal beyond early adopters of gee-whiz tech to the kind of melancholic weirdos who appreciate well-shot, and yet completely bananas advertising. It comes at a time when the durability of foldable devices is still relatively unproven, despite the strenuous lab testing that manufacturers say they’ve been putting their devices through. Notably, the Z Flip is supposed to have a flexible glass display that resists scratches better than the current generation of plastic foldables. a detour pic.twitter.com/AirJTtIn3h — WalkingCat (@h0x0d) February 10, 2020 The emergence of this promotional video has come amidst a tidal wave of leaks ahead of Samsung’s Galaxy S20 launch event on Tuesday, which included a promotional trailer for the Z Flip that Samsung itself decided to put out last night during the Oscars. For a full rundown, here’s everything we know so far about Samsung’s second foldable. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Fashion edition Galaxy Z Flip leaks in weirdo promo Samsung’s Galaxy Home Mini caught on video ahead of rumored Wednesday release View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook