https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21133825/art-club
Samsung confirms its AirDrop-like ‘Quick Share’ is launching on the Galaxy S20 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Samsung Samsung confirms its AirDrop-like ‘Quick Share’ is launching on the Galaxy S20 New, 20 comments The sharing feature will come to other Samsung devices over the coming months By Chris Welch@chriswelch Feb 11, 2020, 5:58pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Samsung confirms its AirDrop-like ‘Quick Share’ is launching on the Galaxy S20 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Samsung AirDrop has long been a handy convenience that comes with using Apple gadgets, but Samsung has finally come up with its own version. And it’s debuting on the Galaxy S20, S20 Plus, and S20 Ultra. It’s called Quick Share, and Samsung says it lets you “share everything with your friends instantly.” Quick Share is detailed toward the bottom of this page that’s about the S20’s camera. Similar to AirDrop, Quick Share can show “which of your contacts is nearby” so you can easily send files to them. But an interesting advantage over AirDrop is that Quick Share allows you to share with “up to 5 friends” simultaneously. AirDrop limits you to one recipient at a time. Screenshots of the Quick Share interface were published by XDA Developers last month, revealing that it has similar options to AirDrop: you can choose to let anyone with a compatible Samsung phone or tablet send you content, or just your contacts. The only compatible devices, however, are the Galaxy S20 phones — at least at launch. Samsung says Quick Share will make its way to the company’s other devices “soon.” Samsung has offered device-to-device sharing before for certain scenarios like beaming content onto your Samsung TV. That version is called Direct Share, but Quick Share is a bit more seamless. Google is also working on its own AirDrop-like software feature called Nearby Sharing that should eventually arrive on Pixel phones. I think we can all agree that AirDrop is an excellent idea, and after some false starts that focused too heavily on NFC, it’s good to see Android catching up in the year 2020. In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 Samsung confirms its AirDrop-like ‘Quick Share’ is launching on the Galaxy S20 Samsung’s Galaxy S20 phones are getting Google’s helpful Live Caption feature View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook