https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21053989/microsoft-xbox-series-x-rear-ports-connectivity-amd-ces-2020
AMD just admitted it showed us a fake Xbox Series X render - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Gaming Entertainment AMD just admitted it showed us a fake Xbox Series X render New, 50 comments A major oops By Tom Warren@tomwarren Updated Jan 6, 2020, 7:56pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: AMD just admitted it showed us a fake Xbox Series X render Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Microsoft revealed its Xbox Series X console last month, but the company strangely didn’t show off the rear of the device. For a few hours today, we thought that had changed during AMD’s CES 2020 keynote, the chipmaker revealed what appeared to be the rear of the Xbox Series X briefly, showing off all of its supposed ports. But while it initially looked like the Xbox Series X would include two USB-C ports and two HDMI ports, AMD has just admitted it actually used a fake render during its presentation. “The Xbox Series X imagery used during the AMD CES press conference was not sourced from Microsoft and does not accurately represent the design or features of the upcoming console,” explains an AMD spokesperson in a statement to The Verge. “They were taken from TurboSquid.com.” Related Microsoft’s next Xbox is Xbox Series X, coming holiday 2020 TurboSquid provides 3D models, and it appears that someone at AMD used one of the many renders available of the Xbox Series X on the site. One in particular includes the same rear ports found in AMD’s presentation. It’s an embarrassing mistake for AMD to make, especially when Microsoft purposefully didn’t reveal the rear ports during its unveil video last month. Microsoft will be including a regular USB-A port at the front of the Xbox Series X, though. AMD just gave us a look at the rear of the Xbox Series X. It has ethernet, 2X USB-C and 2X HDMI pic.twitter.com/NV6y40ncGC — Tom Warren (@tomwarren) January 6, 2020 The Xbox Series X will include a custom-designed CPU based on AMD’s Zen 2 and Radeon RDNA architecture. Microsoft is also using an NVMe SSD on Xbox Series X, which promises to boost load times. Xbox Series X will also support 8K gaming, frame rates of up to 120 fps in games, ray tracing, and variable refresh rate support. Microsoft is planning to ship the Xbox Series X “holiday 2020.” AMD’s rear ports mistake comes just hours after Xbox chief Phil Spencer revealed the Xbox Series X APU on Twitter. Spencer changed his display picture to a chip of Project Scarlett, the codename for the Xbox Series X. The chip itself doesn’t reveal much more than we already know about the Series X, but it includes an 8K stamp which suggests Microsoft will target this resolution at some point with its next-gen console. Xbox Series X APU Phil Spencer Update, January 6th 7:45PM ET: Article updated with a statement from AMD confirming that it used a fake render of the Xbox Series X console. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns AMD just admitted it showed us a fake Xbox Series X render Intel’s Horseshoe Bend concept is a look at the future of foldable PCs View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook