https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/5/21166088/coronavirus-covid-19-protection-doctors-nurses-health-workers-risk
Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 If they get sick, it’s bad for everyone By Nicole Wetsman Updated Mar 6, 2020, 9:38am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: Feature China / Barcroft Media via Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Some nurses at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, New York, are under quarantine after they were exposed to the novel coronavirus by a patient who was treated there. In Washington state, 25 health care workers are under observation after interacting with a people who were not diagnosed with COVID-19, the disease caused by the virus, until after they died. In Northern California, three health care workers tested positive for the virus, and dozens are in isolation. The nature of their job puts health care workers at an increased risk of catching any communicable disease, including COVID-19. During the SARS outbreak in 2002, one-fifth of all cases were in health care workers. If they start to get sick in high numbers during a disease outbreak, it amplifies the already high levels of strain on the health care system. That’s why it’s so important that they have access to protective equipment and for patients to be identified and isolated quickly. “Health care workers spend a lot of time up close with the patient doing high risk activities,” says Terri Rebmann, a nurse researcher and director of the Institute for Biosecurity at Saint Louis University. Those high-risk activities include things like placing patients on ventilators or collecting samples of sputum from their lungs. Personal protective equipment (PPE), like masks, gloves, and gowns, help keep nurses and doctors safe when they’re treating patients with infectious diseases like COVID-19. To protect against the new virus, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that health care workers wear N95 masks, which filter out airborne particles and tiny droplets that may have been coughed up by patients. Those masks only protect health care workers if they’re used properly, though. They have to be fitted, worn, and removed in a specific way. “We’ve seen in the past that healthcare workers have made accidental mistakes in wearing or removing their PPE,” Rebmann says. Non medical friends, let’s have a chat about masks. So, you’ve bought yourself a box of N95 masks and you think you’re good for #COVID19. Let me tell you what my hospital makes me do EVERY YEAR to make sure my N95 mask fits (yes, they come in sizes). Watch out: long thread ahead! — Leora Horwitz (@leorahorwitzmd) March 4, 2020 Masks and gloves also can also only work if they’re available. Masks won’t offer the general public much protection against the spread of the new coronavirus. They won’t fit most people properly, and most people won’t know how to put them on and take them off safely. But that hasn’t stopped people from buying them, which is contributing to a shortage. “Most countries lack sufficient PPE to respond to a large scale event,” Rebmann says. “That puts health care workers at risk.” Less than a third of nurses in the US work at health care facilities with enough PPE to handle an outbreak of COVID-19, according to a survey from the union National Nurses United. Health care workers are also at risk if patients with COVID-19 aren’t identified quickly. If they’re not, doctors and nurses might start to treat them without taking the necessary precautions, which leaves them more exposed to infection. “It’s a risk not only to health care workers, but to visitors and other patients at the hospital,” Rebmann says. That’s why it was concerning to have two patients in Washington only diagnosed after their death. “Not identifying someone who has a contagious disease is a concern. During the H1N1 epidemic, studies showed that if infected individuals weren’t identified, it was associated with staff exposure,” she says. The US lag in testing has made it harder to diagnose patients with COVID-19, putting nurses and doctors at risk. A nurse in California, in quarantine after treating a patient with the virus, wrote in a statement that she wasn’t able to be tested, despite doctor’s recommendations. “I am a registered nurse, and I need to know if I am positive before going back to caring for patients,” she wrote. “I am appalled at the level of bureaucracy that’s preventing nurses from getting tested. That is a health care decision my doctor and my county health department agree with. Delaying this test puts the whole community at risk.” If doctors and nurses start to get sick in high numbers, it can hamstring the medical system. “During major disasters and outbreaks, we have massive patient surges that affect the medical system. We need as many health care workers as possible. If they’re ill, they contribute to that patient surge without being able to contribute as responding personnel,” Rebmann says. “It’s an issue of a numbers game.” It’s also anxiety-provoking for health care workers to have to care for their colleagues and to see them become patients. That adds to the stress of working during a fast-moving outbreak, particularly one that’s causing anxiety in the general population. During the SARS epidemic in 2002, doctors reported facing stigma because they worked with patients sick with the disease. “The anxiety of knowing you might be at risk when you’re doing your job can be very challenging for health care workers,” Rebmann says. “It’s physically and mentally draining.” During disease outbreaks, health care workers put their own safety at risk to care for others. Leaving masks on the shelves and following public health guidelines will help keep you well — and out of the hospital. But it also helps them work as safely as possible, which protects everyone else. Update March 6, 9:37AM ET: Updated with additional information from nurses. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 9 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook