https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21113801/art-club
Overwatch League cancels February and March games in China following coronavirus outbreak - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Science Entertainment Overwatch League cancels February and March games in China following coronavirus outbreak New, 4 comments A big blow for Blizzard’s e-sports league By Andrew Webster Jan 29, 2020, 8:08pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Overwatch League cancels February and March games in China following coronavirus outbreak Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo: Carlton Beener / Blizzard Entertainment The Overwatch League’s plans for a truly global e-sports league have taken a major hit. Today, Blizzard announced that the China-based games taking place in February and March planned for the 2020 season have been canceled following the outbreak of the coronavirus. In a statement posted this evening to Twitter, the league explained that the decision was made to “protect the health and safety of our players, fans, and staff.” “We hope fans have a safe and happy Lunar New Year, and we remain incredibly excited to play Overwatch League matches in China later this season,” the statement reads. “We’ll share more information about when and where the matches will take place at a later date.” pic.twitter.com/nLEPHrJZXS — Overwatch League (@overwatchleague) January 30, 2020 The 2020 season of OWL was set to be the first in league history where each of the 20 teams hosted matches out of their home cities. The league features teams based in Asia, Europe, and North America, and there are currently four Chinese clubs — Shanghai, Chengdu, Hangzhou, and Guangzhou — each of which was expected to host at least two events. The first was slated for the second week of the season, starting February 15th in Shanghai. Prior to today’s news, most of the teams released their own statements outlining their plans for dealing with the outbreak. Both the Guangzhou Charge and Shanghai Dragons, for instance, moved their preseason operations to South Korea for safety reasons. The Overwatch League regular season is slated to kick off February 8th with games in both Dallas and New York. OWL isn’t the only e-sports league dealing with the fallout from the coronavirus. The League of Legends Pro League — arguably the biggest professional gaming circuit in the world — recently announced that it would postpone the competition “until we can ensure the safety and health of our players and fans.” Related Everything you need to know about the coronavirus from China In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Overwatch League cancels February and March games in China following coronavirus outbreak Tesla says China has ordered its Shanghai factory shut down over coronavirus fears View all 322 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook