https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/4/21163613/coronavirus-smartphone-germs-disinfect-apple-google
If you’re worried about whether your phone can spread COVID-19, here is some advice - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile How-to Reviews A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone There are ways to use it without worrying about infection By Barbara Krasnoff Mar 4, 2020, 12:57pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic The media is full of advice about how to avoid spreading COVID-19, caused by the novel coronavirus. Most of it involves keeping your hands clean and not touching your face. But your hands aren’t the only things that touch your face. What about your phone? In a recent article about how to mix up your own hand sanitizer, I mentioned that there wasn’t much concern out there about mobile phones. However, since then, I’ve been witness to several worried conversations about the possible of disease transmission via smartphone and have come across a number of sites offering advice on how to keep your phone disinfected. While alcohol may be bad news for germs, it’s not exactly great for your display There is some reason for concern — but only some. According to the Journal of Hospital Infection, an analysis of 22 studies came to the conclusion that coronaviruses “can persist on inanimate surfaces like metal, glass or plastic for up to 9 days, but can be efficiently inactivated by surface disinfection procedures with 62–71% ethanol, 0.5% hydrogen peroxide or 0.1% sodium hypochlorite within 1 minute.” In other words, the surface of your smartphone can be an avenue of infection, but you can take care of the problem by wiping it with an alcohol solution. Unfortunately, while alcohol may be bad news for germs, it’s not exactly great for your display. (And don’t even think about hydrogen peroxide.) Most smartphones have an oil-repellent (oleophobic) coating that acts to keep fingerprints and other smudges off the screen, and that can be damaged by harsh chemicals. How much damage seems to vary depending on the phone manufacturer. Until recently, both Apple and Google suggested that, for heavy soiling, you can use soapy water on a lint-free cloth, but pretty much anything else was a no-no. However, in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, Apple changed its instructions to read “Using a 70 percent isopropyl alcohol wipe or Clorox Disinfecting Wipes, you may gently wipe the hard, nonporous surfaces of your Apple product, such as the display, keyboard, or other exterior surfaces.” The company adds that you shouldn’t use bleach, and should avoid getting moisture in any of the openings. Meanwhile, in an issue of Health Magazine, microbiologist Charles Gerba suggests lightly dampening a microfiber cloth with a mix of 60 percent water and 40 percent rubbing alcohol to de-germ your display. And if worse comes to worst, iFixit has instructions on how to reapply an oleophobic coating. Another possibility is to buy a screen protector and place it on top of your phone display. The better ones are glass and usually run from around $7 to $40 for a pack of two or three, depending on your phone model. If you clean a screen protector using a light solution of alcohol and water, it shouldn’t damage your phone’s actual display. Screen protectors have the additional advantage that they prevent your display from being accidentally scratched or cracked, although they can be a real pain to install and may make your display slightly less sensitive to your touch. There are also phone sanitizers, which claim to sanitize your phone using ultraviolet (UV) rays. However, we have not tested them and therefore can’t vouch for their effectiveness. Or you can simply stick to using call-capable earbuds or earphones, which will keep your phone — no matter what germs are wandering around on its surface — safely away from your face. Update March 9th, 2020, 2:50PM ET: This article has been updated to include Apple’s new instructions on cleaning its devices. A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 3 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 10 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook