https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/11/21122379/art-club
Samsung Galaxy S20, Plus, and Ultra can record 8K video - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Cameras and Photography Tech Samsung The new Galaxy S20 phones are Samsung’s first to record 8K video A partnership with YouTube lets you send 8K videos directly online By Barbara Krasnoff Feb 11, 2020, 2:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The new Galaxy S20 phones are Samsung’s first to record 8K video Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Samsung’s phones are well-known for their outstanding cameras. So when word went around that the Qualcomm Snapdragon 865 processor would be the chip that would power the new Galaxy S20 line, many suspected that one of the new features of the phone would be the ability to record 8K video. And now we know: Samsung’s three new Galaxy S20 5G phones will indeed allow you to record in 8K for high-quality, brilliantly colored videos. These aren’t the first phones with the ability to record in 8K. That honor is held by the Chinese company ZTE, which introduced its 8K Smart STB phone in Shanghai in 2019. However, the Galaxy S20 phones will have the advantage of the new Snapdragon processor (not to mention the ability to be marketed in the US). According to Samsung, the videos will be enhanced by its Super Steady technology, which now offers anti-rolling stabilization and AI motion analysis. Users will be able to edit the videos right on the phone, something we saw for ourselves in a demo. And from anywhere in a video, they will be able to grab a 32-megapixel still photo. Samsung has partnered with YouTube to allow you to directly upload 8K videos They will then be able to easily show off those videos either at home or out on social media; specifically, on YouTube. If you own a 2019 or 2020 Samsung QLED 8K TV, you will be able to stream the 8K videos directly from the Galaxy S20 to the TV. Samsung has partnered with YouTube to allow you to directly upload 8K videos to the service (assuming that your carrier can handle the bandwidth). This is, of course, only part of the lure of Samsung’s new phones for photographers. There is a variety of new features for making still photos, including the ability to zoom up to 30x on the Galaxy S20 and S20 Plus or up to 100x on the S20 Ultra. But vloggers and other videographers are going to be especially pleased with this latest impressive upgrade. Related Samsung’s Galaxy S20, Plus, and Ultra first look: cameras, 5G, and 120Hz screens In This Stream Samsung Unpacked 2020 event: all of the latest rumors, news, and more Here’s where you can buy the Samsung Galaxy S20 The new Galaxy S20 phones are Samsung’s first to record 8K video Live from Samsung’s Galaxy S20 and Z Flip keynote View all 54 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook