https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/3/21120643/art-club
Uber temporarily suspends 240 accounts in Mexico over coronavirus fears - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Tech Transportation Uber temporarily suspends 240 accounts in Mexico over coronavirus fears New, 2 comments There are no confirmed cases in the country as of yet By Andrew J. Hawkins@andyjayhawk Feb 3, 2020, 4:45pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Uber temporarily suspends 240 accounts in Mexico over coronavirus fears Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge Uber temporarily deactivated 240 customer accounts in Mexico to prevent the possible spread of the coronavirus, according to Bloomberg. In a statement posted on Twitter, the company said it suspended customers who had traveled with two drivers who had suspected contact with the coronavirus. The country’s health officials confirmed an Uber driver had given a ride to a passenger from Los Angeles who was infected with the virus, based on information from US health officials. The man spent two days in Mexico City, but didn’t display symptoms until returning to the US, according to La Silla Rota. None of the suspected cases have developed symptoms in 10 days since contact, including hotel personnel and others from the ride-hailing company. Cases will be monitored for 14 days, health officials said in a statement. To date, there have been no confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Mexico. pic.twitter.com/SQ4b8rRhoH — Uber Mexico (@Uber_MEX) February 1, 2020 “We received a request from the Mexico City Health Department for information about an individual identified as a carrier of coronavirus,” a spokesperson said in a statement. “Out of an abundance of caution, we temporarily suspended the accounts of two drivers who had transported the individual, as well as approximately 240 other users who had been in contact with those drivers. We directed them to contact the public health authorities for further information.” Uber has an online portal which is staffed 24/7 for public health authorities to contact the company for information about riders and drivers. The company says it will “take action on any user accounts on the recommendation of those authorities.” Uber is the latest big American company to get caught up in the coronavirus. Major tech and auto companies like Apple, Google, and Tesla have been forced by the Chinese government to temporarily shutter their offices and factories in the country. Airlines have canceled flights to and from China in an effort to contain the virus. There have been over 17,000 confirmed cases and 362 deaths. The majority of the illnesses are in China, but cases have been reported in nearly two dozen other countries, including the US. No deaths related to the illness have been reported outside of China. The World Health Organization declared the outbreak a global emergency earlier this week. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Uber temporarily suspends 240 accounts in Mexico over coronavirus fears Apple is closing all offices and stores in China through February 9th View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook