https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/5/21124005/fda-emergency-approval-coronavirus-test-cdc-diagnostic-health-labs
FDA issues emergency approval for coronavirus diagnostic test - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus FDA issues emergency approval for coronavirus diagnostic test Samples no longer have to be sent to the CDC for testing By Nicole Wetsman Feb 5, 2020, 9:59am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: FDA issues emergency approval for coronavirus diagnostic test Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Marijan Murat / DPA / AFP via Getty Images The Food and Drug Administration issued an expedited approval of a test for the new coronavirus, signing off on its use by state health labs. That should speed up efforts in the US to detect cases of the virus, which has sickened nearly 25,000 people around the world. Until now, all samples from suspected cases in the US had to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for testing. “The ability to distribute this diagnostic test to qualified labs is a critical step forward in protecting the public health,” said FDA commissioner Stephen Hahn in a statement. The FDA sidestepped the usual regulatory channels and signed off on the test under an Emergency Use Authorization, which allows the use of medical products in life-threatening situations when no approved alternatives are available. The agency previously issued emergency authorizations for tests for MERS, Ebola, and Zika. So far, 260 people have been under investigation for the coronavirus in the United States. Only 11 have been confirmed positive, and 167 have tested negative. The remaining 82 cases are still pending. The test only takes between four and six hours to run, but it can take significantly more time for state health departments to ship samples to the CDC central lab in Atlanta, Georgia. Now, state labs will be able to run the tests themselves, speeding up the process. The CDC submitted a request for emergency authorization to the FDA on Monday. Nancy Messonnier, director of the CDC’s National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, said at that time that the approval would significantly expand the US’s ability to test people suspected of having the virus. She said the CDC had already shipped the test to the International Reagent Resource, the central distributor for diagnostic tests, so it would be available as soon as approval came through. To start, around 200 test kits will be sent to qualified domestic and international labs, and each kit can run around 700 to 800 coronavirus tests. Update February 6, 11:05AM ET: Updated with new information from the CDC. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline FDA issues emergency approval for coronavirus diagnostic test An experimental antiviral medication might help fight the new coronavirus View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook