https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/4/21122863/art-club
Coronavirus pushes ZTE to cancel its press conference at the year’s largest phone show - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Tech MWC 2020 Coronavirus pushes ZTE to cancel its press conference at the year’s largest phone show Mobile World Congress 2020 will be missing at least one big company By Sean Hollister@StarFire2258 Feb 4, 2020, 3:06pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Coronavirus pushes ZTE to cancel its press conference at the year’s largest phone show Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, is the world’s biggest mobile trade show, but the coronavirus will be making it a little smaller this year. Chinese phone manufacturer and telecom giant ZTE just confirmed that it’s canceling its press conference at MWC 2020, citing secondary effects of the virus outbreak. It’s partly due to practical issues like travel and visa delays, a spokesperson tells The Verge — some people weren’t going to make it to Barcelona in time anyhow — but it sounds like the mild case of xenophobia that accompanies the disease may also play a role. “[We] tend to be an overly courteous company, and simply don’t want to make people uncomfortable,” writes the rep. ZTE announced its first 5G phone at Mobile World Congress last year, and still plans to have a booth presence at the show this year according to a statement. “The ZTE Devices Press conference scheduled on February 25, which is just one of multiple planned activities, was cancelled. A wide variety of new 5G devices will be demonstrated at the ZTE booth during MWC 2020 as planned,” ZTE tells us via email. So far, the organization that runs MWC has maintained that the 2020 show “will proceed as planned” and issued a statement hours ago that there has been “minimal impact on the event thus far.” Here’s a list of measures the GSMA is taking against the spread of the virus: Increased cleaning and disinfection programme across all high-volume touchpoints, e.g. catering areas, surfaces, handrails, WCs, entrances/exits, public touch-screens, etc. along with the use of correct cleaning/sanitising materials and products Increased onsite medical support Awareness campaign via online and onsite info-share and signage Availability of sanitising and disinfection materials for public use Awareness and training to all staff and associates on standard personal preventative measures, e.g. personal hygiene, frequency of use of sanitising/disinfection products, etc. Advice to exhibitors on implementing effective cleaning and disinfection of stands, offices along with guidance on personal hygiene measures and common preventive behaviour Public health guidelines and advice communication to Barcelona hotels, public and private transport, restaurants and catering outlets, retail, etc. Installing new signage onsite reminding attendees of hygiene recommendations Implementing a mic change protocol in production for speakers Communicating advice to all attendees to adopt a ‘no-handshake policy’ So far, the coronavirus has killed over 400 people, sickened over 20,000, impacted travel as many airlines have suspended flights, caused tech companies like Apple to temporarily shut down all offices out of an abundance of caution, and may threaten production. ZTE’s fellow Chinese tech giant Huawei postponed a developer conference due to the virus, too. We’re waiting to see whether business as usual resumes when China’s government-extended holiday ends on or around February 10th or if the situation will extend further. Update, February 5th at 1:56PM ET: Article updated with additional statements from ZTE confirming the company will still have booth space at MWC this year. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Coronavirus pushes ZTE to cancel its press conference at the year’s largest phone show The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist View all 322 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook