https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/31/21117090/fox-news-sean-hannity-roku-streaming-blackout-dispute-super-bowl
Fox News hosts urge their fans to complain to Roku over streaming blackout - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Fox News hosts urge their fans to complain to Roku over streaming blackout New, 43 comments Sean Hannity and others are getting involved in the Roku and Fox standoff By Chris Welch@chriswelch Jan 31, 2020, 2:05pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Fox News hosts urge their fans to complain to Roku over streaming blackout Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Chris Welch / The Verge For the first time, Roku has found itself in a heated carriage dispute that’s very familiar to cable providers, but less often associated with tech companies. Yesterday, the conflict between Roku and Fox spilled out into the open, with Roku emailing customers to announce that all of Fox’s standalone channels would abruptly be going away on January 31st. With virtually no notice, Roku has kicked Fox Now, Fox News, and Fox Sports (among others) off its hugely popular platform. The removal comes just days before Super Bowl 2020, which Fox is broadcasting this Sunday night. After Roku’s email, Fox responded with a contentious statement that accused Roku of using its customers “as pawns” in negotiations and reminded viewers of other ways to watch the big game. Now, Fox is striking back in another way: through its Fox News talent. Fox News hosts and contributors including Sean Hannity, Laura Ingraham, Jeanine Pirro, Tomi Lahren, and Tammy Bruce have all tweeted out the same message imploring their fans to voice their displeasure with Roku and demand their channels back. “Why is Roku threatening to take away the FOX News app? We don’t know either,” the message reads. “Tell Roku hands off your device, and to put you ahead of their business interests.” The tweet mentions Roku’s Twitter handle, which is already being inundated with angry messages over the situation. Why is @Roku threatening to take away the FOX News app? We don’t know either! Tell Roku hands off your device, and to put you ahead of their business interests. — Sean Hannity (@seanhannity) January 31, 2020 Oh this stinks. Just got @roku in two rooms, but now they’re threatening to take away the @FoxNews app?! Join me by telling @Roku hands off our devices, and pls put their customers FIRST. — Laura Ingraham (@IngrahamAngle) January 31, 2020 Roku hasn’t gone into great detail over what it and Fox are at odds on, only noting that it offered Fox an “extension” to potentially avoid this sudden inconvenience for customers. But the smart money is on this coming down to advertising. Yes, Roku makes a bunch of popular streaming gadgets, but most of its revenue stems from the advertising business it has built atop the easy-to-use software platform that now has over 30 million users. In December, Bloomberg reported that Roku has become increasingly comfortable exerting its power. “Roku executives will threaten to cancel a channel if its owner doesn’t give Roku a larger cut of ad sales,” the report said. The prior deal that Fox and Roku had in place expires today, which has led us to this deadlock. Our agreement to distribute FOX channels expires today, and FOX has declined to come to an agreement. Rest assured, you can still watch the big game and other FOX programming in many ways on the Roku platform. https://t.co/8iczWiVhk0 — Roku (@Roku) January 31, 2020 It’s still possible that the two sides will work something out prior to Sunday. But Fox is now using some of its most recognizable personalities to send a very clear message to Roku that it’s willing to keep fighting this one out. Smaller channels don’t wield the same power, but we’re starting off 2020 with a new type of conflict in the streaming wars. It’s not unusual for networks to use talent as their public face in these standoffs with DirecTV, Dish, or other cable / satellite operators. But Roku, which has sought to paint itself as a neutral platform overseer, isn’t accustomed to being so publicly called out. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook