https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/26/21155286/mike-pence-coronavirus-response-hiv
Mike Pence, who enabled an HIV outbreak in Indiana, will lead US coronavirus response - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science US & World Tech Mike Pence, who enabled an HIV outbreak in Indiana, will lead US coronavirus response Pence has a track record of ignoring public health evidence By Nicole Wetsman Feb 26, 2020, 7:29pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Mike Pence, who enabled an HIV outbreak in Indiana, will lead US coronavirus response Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Tom Brenner/Getty Images Vice President Mike Pence will take charge of the US response to the new coronavirus, President Donald Trump announced today. “Mike is not a czar,” Trump said. “I don’t view Mike as a czar.” Pence is not a public health expert, either. Instead, as governor of Indiana, he slashed public health spending and delayed the introduction of needle exchanges, which led to the state’s worst outbreak of HIV. He takes over from Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar who has been heading the White House coronavirus task force since the beginning of January. Yale epidemiologist Gregg Gonsalves, who conducted the research linking the Indiana HIV outbreak to Pence’s policies, tweeted that the decision “speaks to a lack of seriousness by the White House.” Oh my f—cking god. He’s putting @VP Mike Pence in charge of #coronavirususa. This is a man that totally botched HIV outbreak in Indiana. This is not a good idea and speaks to a lack of seriousness by the @WhiteHouse. — Gregg Gonsalves (@gregggonsalves) February 26, 2020 Pence also has a history of downplaying the link between smoking and lung cancer, writing in a 2000 op-ed that “despite the hysteria from the political class and the media, smoking doesn’t kill.” There are currently 15 people in the US identified by the public health system who have confirmed cases of COVID-19, the disease caused by the new coronavirus. There are an additional 45 cases in people who were repatriated to the US from the Diamond Princess cruise ship and from Wuhan, China, where the virus originated, and held in quarantine. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says that there will likely be more cases of COVID-19 in the US, and people should prepare for disruptions to everyday life if it starts to spread more widely. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Mike Pence, who enabled an HIV outbreak in Indiana, will lead US coronavirus response This CDC infographic lets you know if your facial hair won’t work with a mask View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook