https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/16/21134986/art-club
Wide Ocean Big Jacket game review: You don’t play, you participate - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Games Review Entertainment You don’t play Wide Ocean Big Jacket; you participate New, 1 comment Laid-back camp By Michael Moore@Kiey Feb 16, 2020, 11:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: You don’t play Wide Ocean Big Jacket; you participate Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Part of The best games of 2020 It can be difficult to find time to finish a video game, especially if you only have a few hours a week to play. In our biweekly column Short Play we suggest video games that can be started and finished in a weekend. Video games and film are fairly diametrically opposed mediums, despite attempts by game creators to emulate the visual medium of film. The issue is that games are interactive, while films are passive. So often, when games attempt to emulate film, it is with non-interactive cutscenes in a medium about interactivity. In big-budget games like Red Dead Redemption, The Last of Us, and Final Fantasy, this has become the way a story is told. But there are also games like Wide Ocean Big Jacket that take techniques from film and apply them to their interactivity instead of a cutscene. It’s enough to make you wish there were more games like it. Wide Ocean Big Jacket follows 13-year-old teens Mord and Ben, longtime friends who recently started dating, as they go camping overnight with Mord’s Uncle Brad and Aunt Cloanne. What unfolds over the course of that night is the awkwardness of ex-tweens starting to engage with the world around them less as kids and more as adults, along with the adults awkwardly engaging with ex-tweens who they’re used to thinking of as kids. It gets even more awkward when you factor in the ways these interactions affect each couple’s relationship. What has stuck with me isn’t the story itself (which is quite good), but the way in which it is told. You aren’t controlling a specific character; instead, you’re acting more as the scene’s director. Any choices you are asked to make have less to do with changing the words or path of the narrative and more to do with the experience you have viewing it. It’s something like Thirty Flights of Loving or Virginia, which both use film techniques like cross-cutting to jump between moments in the story, combined with aspects of Kentucky Route Zero’s player as co-writer approach interactive storytelling. Turnfollow A good example of this is a technique that the game frequently employs, which is a sort of circle shot. Perhaps best known for its use in That ‘70s Show, the camera is at a fixed location in a scene, and it pans to reframe itself at specific people or places in the environment when prompted by the player. It’s used early on in the game (and you can see it in the trailer above at around 0:13). The camera is located in Uncle Brad’s car, looking at him and Cloanne through the car’s windshield as they check a notice board at the campsite. Pressing right swings the camera to Mord sitting the back seat of the car behind the passenger seat, pressing right again pans to Ben, and pressing it again returns it to Brad and Cloanne in the distance. Pressing left at any point would cause it to pan in the opposite direction. In this instance, the camera move is being used to let you select if you want to prompt Mord or Ben to talk about something. But it also shows changes to the scenes between dialogues. In a moment later in the game, while one of the characters is telling a scary story, the tale is broken up by moments where you are able to pan around to see the physical reactions of the characters circling the campfire after each new part of the story is told. What helps to sell the cuts between these moments is the dialogue appears as white text on a blacked-out screen, which is separate from whatever scene you were looking at. It is like something you might see in a silent film, with the character’s name and an icon of their face so you know who is talking. The blacked-out screens allow the game to cross-cut between scenes across different times or locations without being disorienting. It’s a seemingly small technique, but it shows how Wide Ocean Big Jacket uses interactivity to be engaging and immersive, despite the fact that you aren’t solving puzzles or making dramatic narrative choices. Instead, it makes you invested in the story by turning you into a participant. Wide Ocean Big Jacket was created by Turnfollow. You can get it for $7.99 on the Nintendo Switch, on Itch.io (Windows, macOS, and Linux), or on Steam (Windows and macOS). It takes about an hour or two to finish. The best games of 2020 Kentucky Route Zero’s final act was worth the wait One of the Wii U’s best RPGs is even better on the Switch In Murder by Numbers you solve crime with math You should play this extremely chill game about serving coffee to vampires and elves Call of Duty: Warzone is full of clever twists on battle royale Animal Crossing: New Horizons is a chill, charming life sim that puts you in control The Pedestrian is so much more than its great aesthetic Doom Eternal is gory, goofy, and metal as hell Half-Life: Alyx is a satisfying return to City 17 Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook