https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/30/21116163/roku-super-bowl-fox-sports-channels-apps-email
Roku is losing Fox apps just in time for you to miss the Super Bowl, maybe - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Entertainment Tech TV Shows Roku is losing Fox apps just in time for you to miss the Super Bowl, maybe New, 57 comments It’s a carriage dispute, Roku tells us By Sean Hollister@StarFire2258 Jan 30, 2020, 9:14pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Roku is losing Fox apps just in time for you to miss the Super Bowl, maybe Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email If you were hoping to watch the Super Bowl on your Roku TV or set-top box, I hope you weren’t counting on streaming it through Fox’s apps — Roku is pulling all its Fox apps off of the platform, effective Friday, two days before the Big Game. Update, January 31st: Roku and Fox have reached an agreement and will reinstate the apps in time for the Super Bowl. Original story continues: That might strike you as sudden, considering we reported this very morning that Fox Sports was working hard to bring a 4K HDR stream of the Super Bowl to Roku’s streaming sticks, pucks, and TVs. But minutes ago, Fox Sports removed references to Roku from multiple spots on its Super Bowl website, and we’ve now confirmed with Roku that seven channels in total are leaving... unless Fox and Roku strike a deal. Before and after. Notice anything missing? Screenshots by Sean Hollister / The Verge You see, this isn’t an arbitrary move, or even a technical issue — it’s a carriage dispute between the two companies, Roku tells The Verge. Roku and Fox have a distribution agreement set to expire tomorrow. “We offered Fox an extension... if an agreement is not reached, we’ll be forced to remove the channels,” a company representative says. Before and after. Screenshots by Cameron Faulkner/The Verge Here’s Fox’s statement, which clearly shows how heated this situation is: Roku’s threat to delete FOX apps from its customers’ devices is a naked effort to use its customers as pawns. To be clear, FOX has not asked Roku to remove our apps, and we would prefer Roku continue to make them available without interruption. Roku’s tactics are a poorly timed negotiating ploy, fabricating a crisis with no thought for the alarm it generated among its own customers. Even if Roku unilaterally decides to remove FOX apps, savvy Roku customers know Super Bowl LIV on FOX will be ubiquitously available through streaming providers, FOX apps on the biggest streaming platforms and our website. Only Roku can pull apps from its customers’ devices, and we would urge them to stop the intimidation tactics and reconsider the merits of irritating their best customers in pursuit of Roku’s own interests. Roku told us that it would be “forced to remove the channels” if an agreement is not reached, but Fox says that’s false; it’s entirely Roku’s decision. Roku declined to answer whether there’s actual contractual language that forces them to remove the channels. Either way, these are the seven Fox channels that are disappearing, according to Roku: Fox Now Fox Sports Fox News Fox Business Fox Soccer Big Ten Network Fox Nation Note that even if you still have these Fox apps on your Roku, the company says they won’t work anymore starting Friday. But there are other ways to stream. “The game will stream free on the NFL app on Roku unless Fox blocks your ability to stream it,” reads a Friday blog post from Roku. And if you’ve got Comcast Xfinity or Spectrum, those Roku apps should also offer a Fox stream. Alternatively, you can sign up for FuboTV, YouTube TV, Sling TV, or Hulu with Live TV, a number of which have free trials if you haven’t previously been a subscriber. A rep says FuboTV may even offer a 4K stream. But there’s a very good chance you can’t count on Fox’s own Roku apps to bring you the Super Bowl on Sunday, since Fox and Roku are playing hardball. That may be a surprise to some Roku owners, since this is all that Roku is currently telling them via email — no mention of the game: We’ll have to wait and see. Correction, January 31st: This article originally stated that your existing cable subscription might not be enough to let you view the Super Bowl on a Roku. In fact, Comcast Xfinity and Spectrum customers should still be able to through their separate apps, Roku announced Friday. We regret the error. Also, we added information about the NFL app and that Roku declined to comment about contractual language. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook