https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/7/21126961/art-club
The Moto G Stylus and G Power make Motorola’s best budget phones even better - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Mobile Hands-on Featured Videos The Moto G Stylus and G Power make Motorola’s best budget phones even better New, 39 comments Bigger screens, better cameras, and Motorola’s first stylus By Chaim Gartenberg@cgartenberg Feb 7, 2020, 9:00am EST Photography by Becca Farsace Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: The Moto G Stylus and G Power make Motorola’s best budget phones even better Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Motorola’s Moto G line of smartphones has had some of the best budget phones on the market, and this year’s models — the Moto G Stylus and the Moto G Power — look to continue that reputation with bigger screens, faster processors, better cameras, and new features while staying under a $299 price point. The G Stylus, in particular, stands out as one of the few Android phones available in 2020 with a built-in stylus. For this year’s Moto G phones, Motorola is dropping the numeric name scheme it’s used since the original Moto G launched in 2013. That said, the new phones are effectively the G8 successors to last year’s (very good) G7 lineup in all but name. (The $299 G Stylus replaces the G7, while the $249 G Power replaces the G7 Power.) The Moto G Power (left) and Moto G Stylus (right) I had the chance to try both phones out, and they’re solid improvements over the previous models. The new screens look better than ever, and the switch to a hole-punch camera over a notch makes them look like more premium devices. Neither of the new Moto G phones will blow anyone away with specs or features (unless you really like styluses), but considering the price point they’re competing at, they’re impressive devices. The two phones have a lot in common The two phones share a lot in common. On the front of both is a 6.4-inch, 19:9 FHD+ display with a 16-megapixel hole-punch camera (instead of the 6.2-inch, notched displays on last year’s models). Their processor has been bumped to a Snapdragon 665 chipset, which provides enough power for the new triple rear-camera systems on both phones. Both devices also feature 4GB of RAM, stereo speakers, and Android 10. They share a similar design, with shiny plastic exteriors that house a 3.5mm headphone jack and a rear-mounted fingerprint sensor. The G Power is a bit thicker and heavier, thanks to its larger battery. Unfortunately, there’s still no NFC or wireless charging, which is frustrating, even considering the budget price tags here. The phones also feature a “water repellant” design, but are explicitly not waterproof. The differences between the two phones lie mainly in their eponymous features. The G Stylus, as one might guess, has a stylus. It’s not quite as capable as the Galaxy Note 10 — Motorola’s stylus is completely analog, with none of the fancy Bluetooth linking or camera shutter buttons featured on the Note’s S Pen. But Motorola does have a few software tricks up its sleeve here, like Moto Note, a lightweight note-taking application that pops up when you pull out the stylus when the phone is locked. There’s also a customizable quick-launch menu that hovers in the corner of the screen. One has a stylus, the other has a giant battery Despite the lack of more advanced tech, the G Stylus feels pretty nice to use. It also costs a fraction of Samsung’s stylus-equipped flagship (normally priced at $950), which could make it a good option for those who prefer the pen-based approach without wanting to spend premium prices. The G Power, on the other hand, offers a larger battery — 5,000 mAh, compared to the 4,000 mAh battery on the pricier G Stylus. With that massive battery combined with the mid-range processor, Motorola says that the G Power should last up to three days on a charge. The other big difference between the phones is in their cameras. Both phones feature a triple camera setup on the back, but the specs are very different between the two. The more expensive G Stylus got more of Motorola’s love here. There’s a 48-megapixel main camera that shoots quad-pixel 12-megapixel stills and features a night vision mode, along with a 2-megapixel macro lens, which can focus in on objects that are just two centimeters (0.7 inches) away. The G Stylus’ most interesting camera is the dedicated 117-degree ultrawide video camera, which Motorola debuted in last year’s Motorola One Action. Like the One Action, the 16-megapixel sensor here is physically rotated so that it shoots horizontally oriented video when the phone is held vertically, and it’s paired with software algorithms that promise to reduce shakiness during action shots. It’s not quite a substitute for a Go Pro, but it’s a fun camera to play around with. The G Power is less exciting, with a 16-megapixel main camera, an 8-megapixel 118-degree ultrawide camera, and the same macro camera as the G Stylus. It also offers half the internal storage as the G Stylus, which has 128GB compared to the G Power’s 64GB. Both phones offered upgradable microSD card slots, though, should you need more space. Both phones will be sold unlocked at a variety of retailers, including Amazon, Best Buy, Walmart, and B&H Photo, when they come out later this spring. The Verge on YouTube Exclusive first looks at new tech, reviews, and shows like Processor with Dieter Bohn. Subscribe! Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook