https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050765/netatmo-homekit-smart-door-lock-nfc-keys-price-ces-2020
Netatmo’s HomeKit smart lock uses physical NFC keys - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Netatmo’s HomeKit smart lock uses physical NFC keys New, 14 comments It’ll be Europe-only when the Smart Door Lock and Keys ship in late 2020 By Thomas Ricker@Trixxy Jan 5, 2020, 8:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Netatmo’s HomeKit smart lock uses physical NFC keys Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email An NFC Key being inserted into Netatmo’s Smart Door Lock. Image: Netatmo Netatmo just added a door lock to its portfolio of smart home gear. The creatively named Netatmo Smart Door Lock and Keys is compatible with Apple’s HomeKit standard, and it ships with three physical keys that use NFC to instantly and securely unlock the door mechanism when inserted into the lock. If you find yourself without one of the pre-paired keys, you can still unlock the door through the Netatmo Security app, the same app that manages Netatmo’s cameras and smart smoke alarm. You can add additional NFC keys to the lock, or deactivate lost or stolen keys through the Security app. A key can also be configured to unlock multiple Netatmo Smart Door Locks in the same home or in different locations. Once the key is inserted, the mechanism must be manually rotated to release the deadbolt, exactly as you would with a regular key. There’s no hands-free or remote lock / unlock option, which might be a deal-breaker for many. Image: Netatmo Image: Netatmo The lack of a motorized unit to release the deadbolt is why Netatmo can claim a two-year battery life from four AAA batteries. The lock can also be powered over a Micro USB jack if the batteries are dead after ignoring the audible warnings and app alerts that power is running low. Invitations to lock and unlock the door can be sent to neighbors or guests over email, SMS, or WhatsApp. They include a link to a Netatmo Guest app, which is a stripped-down version of Netatmo’s regular app. Access can then be withdrawn at the owner’s discretion. The Smart Door Lock is also fitted with an accelerometer to detect vibrations associated with tampering. Netatmo’s Smart Door Lock and Keys is launching in Europe at the end of 2020. (The company doesn’t have any plans for a US version yet.) It replaces existing European cylinder locks, and it can be adapted to the thickness of the door. It communicates over Bluetooth (not Wi-Fi) to the HomeKit hub, and all of the NFC security operations are stored and processed locally on the device. Although pricing hasn’t been finalized, the Smart Door Lock and Keys kit is expected to cost between €350 and €400, which includes the lock, three keys, and do-it-yourself installation tools. An additional three NFC keys are expected to cost another €100. Fortunately, Netatmo’s lock doesn’t require a monthly subscription to operate, nor does it need an additional Netatmo hub to be installed on your home’s network. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Netatmo’s HomeKit smart lock uses physical NFC keys Suunto’s first Wear OS smartwatch is taking on Garmin with outdoor offline maps View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook