https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/24/21080151/art-club
Second case of coronavirus confirmed in the US  - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus Second case of coronavirus confirmed in the US Public health officials are still investigating 50 suspected cases By Nicole Wetsman Jan 24, 2020, 11:14am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Second case of coronavirus confirmed in the US Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by HECTOR RETAMAL/AFP via Getty Images A second US case of the new coronavirus has been confirmed in a patient in Chicago, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported today. The female patient had recently returned from Wuhan, China, and did not have symptoms when she arrived in the US. When she developed symptoms, she reported them to a doctor. There have been 63 suspected cases of the coronavirus under investigation in the US, the CDC said during a press conference. Of those 63 suspected cases, two were confirmed: a patient in Washington state and the new patient in Chicago. Eleven of those cases tested negative for the virus. The remaining 50 cases are still being tested by the CDC. The CDC expects to see additional suspected and confirmed cases in the US as the outbreak progresses. The agency has a diagnostic test available, but right now, all testing must be done at CDC labs in Atlanta. Once a sample arrives at the CDC and is prepared, it takes four to six hours to run the test. “Part of the delay is from samples getting to the CDC,” said Nancy Messonnier, director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the CDC, during a press call. The agency is working on developing a test that can be sent to state health agencies. “We believe it’s likely many states will have patients under investigation that might want to do diagnostics,” she said. Public health officials in Chicago are monitoring the new patient’s close contacts, and none of those contacts currently have signs of illness. The patient is still hospitalized but is stable. Officials are not naming the hospital that the patient is being treated at out of concern for the patient’s privacy. They said during the press call that they would name the hospital if they had concerns about the general public, if they were having trouble identifying people in contact with the patient for follow-up, or if they thought that the disease had spread in the hospital, but none of those situations currently apply. Both US patients self-reported symptoms and their travel history to health care providers, which the CDC says underscores the importance of alerts to and education for travelers who have returned from Wuhan. In This Stream Coronavirus disrupts China and the world: updates on the outbreak Lyft is referring drivers to jobs at Amazon after massive ridership decline Second case of coronavirus confirmed in the US World Health Organization says it’s too early to declare global emergency over new coronavirus View all 322 stories Next Up In Science Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook