https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/7/21054602/razer-tomahawk-desktop-gaming-pc-intel-nuc-element-design-specs-ces-2020
Razer’s first desktop gaming PC is the stunning modular Tomahawk - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Tech CES 2020 News Razer’s first desktop gaming PC is the stunning modular Tomahawk New, 13 comments It uses a swappable Intel NUC Element card instead of a standard CPU and motherboard By Sean Hollister@StarFire2258 Jan 7, 2020, 9:00am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Razer’s first desktop gaming PC is the stunning modular Tomahawk Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Razer sells plenty of gaming mice, keyboards, headsets, and an edgy gaming laptop called the Blade, but it’s never sold its own gaming desktop PC — unless you count a few collaborations with Lenovo and Maingear. But that’s changing this summer with an impressive-looking box that will be known as the Razer Tomahawk, a fully upgradable gaming desktop that takes up just 10 liters of volume. While it might look like just an external GPU box at first glance — maybe a better-looking Razer Core? — there’s an important reason why this sleek aluminum and tempered glass box can seem so effortlessly small. It’s because there’s no traditional motherboard or desktop CPU inside, but rather an Intel NUC Element modular computer. Intel’s NUC Element, containing most of the elements of a full desktop computer. Photo by Vjeran Pavic / The Verge It’s effectively a swappable brain that contains up to a 45W Core i9-9980HK mobile CPU, cooling, slots for memory and storage, a Wi-Fi 6 radio, lots of ports, and all the headers a motherboard would normally need to power a desktop PC. This leaves Razer to simply design the enclosure, provide a power supply, graphics card, SSD, fans and RAM, load an operating system, and configure it for you. The Tomahawk has a larger, standard SFX power supply compared to Intel’s NUC 9 Extreme. Or Razer could just provide the enclosure by itself and let you do the rest — though we don’t have pricing for the case by itself quite yet. Intel will sell the NUC Element boards separately through retailers like Amazon and Newegg, so you can buy them elsewhere and slot them in. The Tomahawk slides open with a locking handle, just like Razer’s eGPU boxes. The company tells us the full turnkey system will ship this June. While pricing isn’t set yet, Razer’s targeting a starting price just over $2,000, including a Core i7, 16GB of RAM, 512GB of solid state storage and an undisclosed RTX 20-series GPU, and topping out at the Core i9 with 64GB of RAM and a GeForce RTX 2080 Super. It’s not quite the modular gaming PC concept that Razer teased in 2014, but it seems far more realistic — assuming Intel keeps making the modules. Intel says it’s planning to offer upgrades for at least a couple years, and other partners are on board as well. Cooler Master, for instance, will also offer its own NUC Element enclosure and turnkey systems later this year. Related Inside Intel’s Ghost Canyon NUC, the incredibly small modular desktop PC Correction, 12:15 PM ET: Final pricing for the Razer Tomahawk hasn’t actually been set yet, but Razer tells us it should start closer to $2,000 than the $2,300 we originally suggested. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Razer’s first desktop gaming PC is the stunning modular Tomahawk Up close with Mercedes-Benz’s Avatar concept car View all 176 stories Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook