https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/29/21114156/tesla-model-y-deliveries-q1-2020-early-schedule
Tesla says it will start delivering the Model Y this spring, months ahead of schedule - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Transportation Cars Tesla Tesla says it will start delivering the Model Y this spring, months ahead of schedule New, 29 comments The crossover electric SUV was originally expected to start shipping by ‘fall 2020’ By Sean O'Kane and Andrew J. Hawkins Jan 29, 2020, 4:36pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Tesla says it will start delivering the Model Y this spring, months ahead of schedule Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Tesla says it’s ready to start delivering the Model Y compact SUV in the first quarter of 2020, in a letter to investors. That’s ahead of schedule, a first for the company. If the Model Y starts shipping in March, that’s several months ahead of the original estimate of “fall 2020” espoused by the company at the Model Y launch event in 2019. It’s not clear which version of the Model Y will be the first to ship Tesla’s website on Wednesday showed that the $52,990 all-wheel drive “long range” version of the Model Y, as well as the performance version, will start shipping in March of 2020. The company also said it was able to increase the ultimate range from 280 miles to 315 miles. The cheaper, standard range version with a range of 230 miles was originally slated for 2021, and will start closer to $40,000, but Tesla did not announce any changes to that version of the Model Y on Wednesday. The Model Y was teased for years, but was formally announced in March 2018. While Tesla calls it a compact or crossover SUV, the Model Y shares about 75 percent of its parts with the Model 3 sedan, and the two electric vehicles are extremely similar. The Model Y has a bit more headroom and a third row. The fold-down seats in the third row are very small, and there’s not much space, at least as of a demo ride last year. Otherwise, the Model Y features the same sparse interior and dashboard-mounted touchscreen display for which the Model 3 is known. Next Up In Transportation Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook