https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/27/21197121/art-club
Games Done Quick is holding a speedrunning marathon to raise money for coronavirus relief - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Gaming Entertainment Games Done Quick is holding a speedrunning marathon to raise money for coronavirus relief Corona Relief Done Quick takes place April 17th-19th By Megan Farokhmanesh@Megan_Nicolett Mar 27, 2020, 1:50pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Games Done Quick is holding a speedrunning marathon to raise money for coronavirus relief Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Games Done Quick, an organization that holds speedrunning marathons for charity, will hold a special event to raise donations for those affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Corona Relief Done Quick will take place April 17th-19th, with all proceeds going to humanitarian aid organization Direct Relief. Direct Relief aids those affected by poverty and emergencies. In response to the coronavirus spread, the organization is working to provide crucial medical equipment, such as face masks and protective gear. Streams will be online only and available via Twitch. GDQ’s in-person summer event will also be postponed; the event will now take place August 16th-23rd in Bloomington, Minnesota, instead of the originally planned June dates. Benefits will go to Doctors Without Borders. Next Up In Gaming Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook