https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/11/21173608/zoom-video-conference-how-to-virtual-background-greenscreen
How to hide your messy room during a Zoom video conference - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: How-to Reviews Tech How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference If you’re working from home, you may not need to clean up for that meeting By Barbara Krasnoff Mar 11, 2020, 10:04am EDT Photos by Grayson Blackmon / The Verge Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Part of The Verge Guide to Working at Home The novel coronavirus outbreak has forced a lot more people to work from home these days, and many of them are keeping in touch via video conferencing software like Zoom. If you find yourself in that position, you may have suddenly realized that the piles of toys, equipment, dirty clothes, and dust bunnies that you always took for granted are going to be very visible as you try to convince your co-workers that you are an expert in your field. Don’t despair. If your company (like many others) uses Zoom in order to do its teleconferencing, you can hide all of that detritus using Zoom’s Virtual Background feature. The feature lets you use a still image or a video in the background to hide whatever is really going on back there — that is, if your computer can handle it. There is a long list of requirements on Zoom’s support site, depending on the type of system you’re using. If you have a high-end system — usually a later version of your OS of choice with an Intel Core i5 or i7 quad-core processor — you can use a virtual background immediately. If you have a slightly lower-end system, you may still be able to use the feature, but you’ll need to have a physical green screen behind you. Related The best laptop you can buy right now Here’s how you can set up a virtual background using Zoom’s desktop client for a Mac or PC: Open up your Zoom client Click on the gear “Setup” icon on the upper-right corner Select “Virtual Background” in the left-hand menu Zoom has provided some sample backgrounds. Click on the one you’d like to use. If you would rather supply your own background, click on the plus sign above and to the left of the sample backgrounds, choose an image from your computer, and add it. And if your computer isn’t capable of handling a virtual background without a physical green screen, you will get a warning and be urged to check the “I have a green screen” box below the sample images. You can also add a virtual background during a meeting. In your Zoom client, click on the up-arrow next to the video symbol on the bottom left Select “Choose a virtual background...” That will bring you to the same Virtual Background page as before. That should do it. Now you can attend any virtual business meeting without fear of exposing your lack of talent in either home design or cleaning methods. Vox Media has affiliate partnerships. These do not influence editorial content, though Vox Media may earn commissions for products purchased via affiliate links. For more information, see our ethics policy. The Verge Guide to Working at Home Tech strategies 6 How to work from home How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi How to choose a free videoconference app The do’s and don’ts of video conferencing How to find keyboard shortcuts for Zoom How to help your remote workers feel involved Staying sane 7 How to use Netflix Party to stream movies with your friends How to watch movies with friends online Here’s a list of games you should play while you’re stuck inside avoiding the coronavirus The best movies and TV shows to stream when you’re working remotely How social networks can do good while we’re all trapped indoors Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home How to order takeout safely and ethically Furniture and gadgets 3 My favorite adjustable tables for working from home The best laptop you can buy right now The best wireless headphones to buy right now Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook