https://www.theverge.com/2020/3/13/21178312/remote-work-worker-videoconference-slack-chat-connected
How to help your remote workers feel involved - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: How-to Reviews Tech How to help your remote workers feel involved If you’re not used to it, remote work can feel isolating By Barbara Krasnoff Mar 13, 2020, 1:12pm EDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: How to help your remote workers feel involved Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: The Bold Type Part of The Verge Guide to Working at Home Working from home is not new for me — in fact, it’s something I’m used to. Besides spending years as a freelancer and a contract worker for several publications, I worked for nearly 10 years at an organization where the main office (and most of the employees) were in the Boston area. Since I live in New York City, that meant I worked almost exclusively via phone, email, and chat. It also meant that I found out how isolating working from home could feel. While some of what I experienced doesn’t pertain to the current situation, I thought what I learned during that time might be useful for companies that are scrambling to keep their employees working with as little practical and emotional disruption as possible (considering the situation). Make sure everyone has adequate tech When I first started working remotely, video conferencing software like Zoom was a lot less efficient and a lot more expensive. As a result, I sat through countless audio-only meetings where I quickly lost track of who was speaking or couldn’t hear what somebody was saying at all. And when in-person conversations got intense, people would tend to forget that remote employees were still at the other end of the call. When that happened, it was as if I wasn’t a full employee. These days, because of better apps — and because, at many companies, everybody is working remotely — that’s not as much of an issue. But if your company does not normally accommodate meetings with remote participants, I would urge you to immediately start using a decent video conferencing tool. Zoom, Skype, and Google Hangouts are three places to start if you’re a small company looking for something quick and freely available. Good software tools won’t help if your worker has lousy hardware. If employees are using personal equipment (whether that’s computers or phones) to join meetings, make sure their tech is up to date enough to allow them to fully participate in online meetings. If they constantly drop out because of an old computer or phone with a bad mic or because they have slow home internet, then see if you can get them the equipment they need, even on a temporary basis. And if you’ve got IT people at your company who are now sitting at home, make sure they are available for chat and / or phone consultations. Equally important is that they know how to patiently talk less-knowledgeable people through audio and visual difficulties. Use a chat app Slack or Microsoft Teams or whatever instant chat service you use is your friend. Not only does it ensure that workers can stay up to date with all of the business that they need to take care of, but it’s vital for the kind of social conversations that most workplaces are full of, which are no longer happening in person. Let there be at least one channel on your chat app for discussions about personal stuff, funny things that happened, or concerns about the news. You also want to use your chat app to make sure that everyone is up on the latest company news. What precautions are being taken at the workplace (assuming there are still people working there)? Where can they go if they have questions or emergencies? How is HR handling sick leave? Who can they contact if there are any ordinary questions that may come up in the meantime? And don’t forget your freelancers and contract workers. People who regularly work with you but are normally not part of the daily business conversation are going to be especially isolated. If there is a way to make them part of the conversation (perhaps by giving them limited access to the chat app), that would be a good thing to do. Make sure everyone is included in business and social events This may not be as much of an issue in the current pandemic while most people are working remotely, but it still holds. In meetings, make sure that all participants are, well, participating. Some people, especially those who are not used to working remotely, may at first be uncomfortable in video conferences, and so they may hang back. Don’t force people to appear on camera if they don’t want to. While video meetings tend to work better when you feel as though you are talking to a real person, if a participant feels awkward being on camera (or is worried about how messy their house is), then they’re going to spend the meeting too distracted to pay full attention to the matters at hand. If you or your employees decide to hold a virtual get-together, Twitch gaming session, video watch party, or other social event, make sure everyone in the company is aware of it and invited. Of course, you can have separate events for teams within the company, but it’s not a good idea to further isolate employees whose jobs may not usually involve working with others. And if people continue to work at home over several weeks, make sure the social events are varied so that everyone can become involved in at least one or two. You don’t want to further isolate workers who may already feel somewhat set apart because of ethnicity or other aspects of identity, such as gender identity, sexual orientation, or age. Asking for suggestions (rather than simply assuming what you like is what they like) can help. These are anxious times, and it’s hard enough for many people to concentrate on their jobs. Making sure that everyone feels involved and wanted at their workplace can go a long way toward keeping a company going. The Verge Guide to Working at Home Tech strategies 6 How to work from home How to boost your home’s Wi-Fi How to choose a free videoconference app The do’s and don’ts of video conferencing How to hide your messy room for a Zoom video conference How to find keyboard shortcuts for Zoom Staying sane 7 How to use Netflix Party to stream movies with your friends How to watch movies with friends online Here’s a list of games you should play while you’re stuck inside avoiding the coronavirus The best movies and TV shows to stream when you’re working remotely How social networks can do good while we’re all trapped indoors Soothing live animal webcams to watch while you’re stuck at home How to order takeout safely and ethically Furniture and gadgets 3 My favorite adjustable tables for working from home The best laptop you can buy right now The best wireless headphones to buy right now Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook