https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21050409/art-club
Acer’s ConceptD 7 Ezel is a smaller transforming laptop designed for creators - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Microsoft Tech CES 2020 News Acer’s ConceptD 7 Ezel is a smaller transforming laptop designed for creators New, 3 comments Fold the screen down for drawing, or just make it float By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 5, 2020, 5:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Acer’s ConceptD 7 Ezel is a smaller transforming laptop designed for creators Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Ashley Carman / The Verge Acer has announced a smaller version of its creator-focused transforming ConceptD laptop following the launch of the ConceptD 9 last year. The new ConceptD 7 Ezel features a smaller 15.6-inch 4K display (down from 17.3 inches in the previous model), which can be rotated into five different configurations, including a floating mode that sees the display hover above the laptop’s keyboard. Alternatively, you can fold the touchscreen down, and sketch on it using the included Wacom EMR pen. Acer has also announced the ConceptD 700 desktop, which features powerful internals packed into a chassis with a minimalist design. Acer’s floating, transforming laptop displays date back to 2013’s Aspire R7, and last year, it built its Ezel hinge into the Triton 900 gaming laptop. However, while the transforming screen felt a little gimmicky when used for gaming, the design has much more potential with creative tasks since it allows you to use the laptop more like a drawing tablet. The laptop’s screen can be folded down to make it easier to draw on. Photo by Ashley Carman / The Verge The company is keen to emphasize that its new laptop’s screen is highly color-accurate, making it suitable for creative work. The screen covers 100 percent of the Adobe RGB color gamut, and it has a color accuracy of Delta E <2. Acer says the laptop’s screen has a peak brightness of 400 nits and features an anti-glare coating. Elsewhere, ConceptD 7 Ezel has the kind of specs you’d expect to find in a gaming-focused machine. It comes with up to an Intel 10th Gen H-series processor, 32GB of RAM, and 2TB of PCIe solid-state storage. There’s also a Pro version, which you can configure with an Intel Xeon processor. Both laptops feature Nvidia GPUs (you get the option of Quadro RTX GPUs with the Pro), and they’re also part of Nvidia’s RTX Studio program, which includes drivers designed to boost the performance of creative software. The laptop includes two Thunderbolt 3 ports, an SD card slot, DisplayPort 1.4, and HDMI 2.0. Alongside the new laptop, Acer has also announced a desktop PC with a similar focus on creators. The ConceptD 700 can be configured with up to an Intel Xeon E processor, Nvidia Quadro RTX 4000, and 64GB RAM. It’s also got quite an interesting case design, with a wood-effect top panel that has a built-in wireless charging pad. Acer’s ConceptD desktop includes a wireless charging pad on its top. Image: Acer Given their professional focus, it’s not surprising that neither the ConceptD 700 nor the ConceptD 7 Ezel will come cheap. The ConceptD 7 Ezel starts at $2,699, with a release date that’s yet to be announced. The Pro model starts at $3,099 and will be available in July. There’s no North American pricing or availability info for the ConceptD 700 just yet, but it’ll be available in Europe in March starting at €1,699. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Acer’s ConceptD 7 Ezel is a smaller transforming laptop designed for creators Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home Here’s a list of games you can grab and save some money in the process Pick up some new digital games without burning a hole in your pocket The new MacBook Air and iPad Pro are already discounted on Amazon Both will release tomorrow, March 25th More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook