https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/6/21051717/peloton-monitor-fcc-filing-screen-rowing-machine-cheaper-treadmill-rumors
Peloton is working on a new monitor, according to its latest FCC filing - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech Wearable Fitness What could this new Peloton monitor be for? New, 2 comments Are the Peloton rower or cheaper bikes and treadmills coming? By Natt Garun@nattgarun Jan 6, 2020, 11:46am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: What could this new Peloton monitor be for? Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by Amelia Holowaty Krales / The Verge An FCC filing released today suggests that Peloton is working on a new monitor of some sort. The listing classifies the product as a “console,” the first from Peloton to hit the FCC listings since 2018, after its treadmill launched. The only accompanying photo is a label that seems to go on the back of the screen, with display and power ports along the center. Current Peloton bike monitors follow a model number starting with “RB” while the Tread monitor starts with “TC.” The new listing today indicates a model number of “TTR01” — something we hadn’t seen before. Since last year, Peloton is rumored to be working on a rowing machine and cheaper versions of its popular bike and treadmill, which currently retail for $2,245 and $4,295 respectively. The company unveiled its Tread back at CES in 2018 and showed it off again in 2019, but has elected not to exhibit at this year’s convention. Peloton also came under fire last summer when it announced it would no longer support software updates for bikes using the first generation of its tablet screens. The bikes would still allow users to stream live and on-demand classes, but riders would not receive updates like a new personalized homepage, class suggestions, workout metric displays, or bug fixes. It’s unclear whether the new monitor detailed in today’s FCC filing is just another refresh for an existing machine, but given that Peloton CEO John Foley has hinted at a “better, best” growth strategy, it’s likely that a new class of Peloton machines is on its way. Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook