https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/5/21048999/arlo-pro-3-floodlight-security-camera-ces-2020
Arlo announces the Arlo Pro 3 Floodlight Camera - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Smart Home Tech CES 2020 News Arlo’s new Floodlight Camera doesn’t need any wiring New, 3 comments Coming this spring for $249.99 By Jay Peters@jaypeters Jan 5, 2020, 5:00pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Arlo’s new Floodlight Camera doesn’t need any wiring Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: Arlo Arlo is announcing its newest security camera, the Arlo Pro 3 Floodlight Camera, which has a plate of powerful LEDs to better light the area in the camera’s field of view. Unlike other floodlight security cameras, Arlo’s Floodlight Camera doesn’t require any wiring; it can run entirely on rechargeable batteries. The Floodlight Camera seems to share many of the same features as the Arlo Pro 3, including 2K video with HDR, a built-in siren, color night vision, a 160-degree field of view, and two-way audio. Arlo tells The Verge that the Floodlight Camera is weather-resistant, and we’ve asked if it has the same IP65 certification as the Pro 3. The Pro 3 had its own spotlight above the camera, but the Floodlight Camera looks as if it can cast a lot more light with its brightly glowing faceplate. Arlo tells The Verge that the faceplate delivers 2,000 lumens of brightness when running on battery power. That’s less bright than the 3,000 lumens Amazon-owned Ring’s Floodlight Camera can produce, but Ring’s camera must be connected to the electrical system in your house. You can also wire Arlo’s Floodlight Camera to your electrical system, and if you do, Arlo says it can shine at 3,000 lumens as well. Image: Arlo Arlo says the Floodlight Camera has an ambient light sensor it can use to automatically turn on when it’s dark outside, and you can specify exactly how bright or dark you want it to be before the light turns on. You can also set the floodlight to cast three different light patterns — constant, flashing, and pulsating — which you can control manually or set to happen when certain automations are triggered. Arlo tells The Verge that the Floodlight Camera may get up to six months of battery life on a full charge. The Floodlight Camera also comes with a trial to Arlo Smart Arlo says the Floodlight Camera will be available this spring for $249.99. If you buy one, you’ll also get a three-month trial to Arlo Smart, which costs $2.99 per month thereafter. Arlo Smart gives you customizable alerts for when your cameras detect people, animals, vehicles, or packages, as well as access to 30 days of video recordings in the cloud. If you want to check your recordings from your Floodlight Camera once your Arlo Smart trial is up, though, you will have to pay for the subscription, according to Arlo. If you want to make recordings without paying for a subscription, the company says you can pair the Floodlight Camera with an Arlo base station to back up recordings to a USB drive. An Arlo Smart subscription also gives you access to the company’s e911 feature, which will contact the emergency services closest to your home when you contact 911 through Arlo’s app, even if you’re not near your home when making that call. Related Arlo’s new Pro 3 security camera shoots in 2K HDR and can see color in the dark Netgear is releasing its Arlo security light to catch intruders on your lawn In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns Arlo’s new Floodlight Camera doesn’t need any wiring Here’s Lenovo’s first eGPU enclosure and a ‘gaming laptop’ to go with it View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook