https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/12/21131478/coronavirus-research-china-us-case-study-symptoms-data
Coronavirus data from outside and inside the outbreak epicenter are both valuable - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Science Health Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside Scientists get more details from patients who aren’t in a hot zone By Nicole Wetsman Feb 12, 2020, 9:23am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Coronavirus data from outside the outbreak epicenter is just as valuable as from the inside Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Photo by TOLGA AKMEN/AFP via Getty Images Part of A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic The active impact of the new coronavirus is very different in China, where tens of thousands of people are sick, than it is in the rest of the world, which only has a few dozen scattered cases. But data from both environments is helping scientists as they work to understand the virus and the illness it causes. “With a large number of cases you get a better sense of how the virus behaves on average in a community,” says Caitlin Rivers, senior associate at the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Security. “In a place with fewer cases, you can spend more time investigating each case.” In the past week, researchers have published reports on large groups of coronavirus patients in China. One described the way the illness affected 138 patients at Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, finding that around a quarter had to be cared for in the intensive care unit and that some patients had atypical symptoms like diarrhea and nausea. The study, published in the Journal of the American Medical Association, found that hospitalized patients passed the virus to 40 health care workers. Another team analyzed 1,099 patients from over 500 hospitals in China. In that set, fever and cough were the most common symptoms, and around 15 percent developed severe pneumonia. The data, which was published as a preprint, hasn’t yet been peer-reviewed or published in a journal. Those studies and others like them give researchers a bigger picture of the outbreak. “It tells us a lot about what happens when you have a lot of overwhelmed hospitals,” says Angela Rasmussen, a research scientist at the Center for Infection and Immunity at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health. That helps public health officials in countries like the US prepare for what they might see if the virus continues to spread outside China. Like any data from inside an active epidemic, though, the information comes with some caveats: usually, only the most severe cases of an illness come to the attention of public health authorities and are hospitalized during an active crisis. So the cases that are included in these reports may be more extreme examples of illness. Doctors in China are also focused on treating patients and stopping the spread of disease, and they’re not collecting exhaustive data on individual cases. In places with only a few cases, like the US, researchers have the time to do more specific clinical evaluations of each patient. “When you look at big groups, sometimes you can miss some of the subtleties that you could investigate in one person,” Rasmussen says. “In a crisis situation, there’s often not that kind of data collected because the priority is taking care of people who are really sick.” Each person’s body responds to a virus differently, she says, and having details on individuals can help highlight the various ways a person could react to an infection. Individual case studies have their own limitations — no scientist would say that they have conclusive evidence from only one data point — but granular detail on single cases helps them understand how infections unfold. A recent case report on a US patient in Washington state, for example, included a day-by-day description of his symptoms and temperature. It also included all of his lab results, like his white blood cell and potassium counts. Another report, published this week, also tracked a Nepalese patient’s temperature over time and included images of his lungs. With only a few patients to treat, public health officials in countries without large outbreaks can also focus on tracking down everyone a sick patient came into contact with. “In theory, you’d be able to find all the new infections,” Rivers says. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is keeping close track of the close contacts of all the US cases, for example, and recording any new symptoms and testing them for the virus if necessary. That helps it understand how the virus is passed from person to person and how many additional people sick patients go on to infect. These anecdotal case reports and large group epidemiological studies are precious to researchers as they scramble to learn how dangerous the new coronavirus is, Rasmussen says. “All the different studies are important.” A guide to the COVID-19 pandemic Virus Basics 6 Everything you need to know about the coronavirus The coronavirus could stick around, but the way we fight it will change if it does If you’re feeling nervous about the coronavirus, you’re not alone Here’s who’s most at risk from the novel coronavirus Canceling events early can help keep an outbreak from getting worse Why we’re seeing some severe COVID-19 cases among younger people Virus Response 11 Coronavirus testing shouldn’t be this complicated How cities are fighting coronavirus on public transportation How emergency declarations are helping governments respond to COVID-19 The new coronavirus is not an excuse to be racist WHO declares the outbreak of the new coronavirus is a pandemic Trump signs $8.3 billion emergency coronavirus aid package Coronavirus-contaminated cruise ships mirror the global crisis All of Italy is being placed on lockdown due to coronavirus Prisons and jails are vulnerable to COVID-19 outbreaks Personal privacy matters during a pandemic — but less than it might at other times Scientists are racing to find the best drugs to treat COVID-19 How Tos 4 Everything you wanted to know about self-quarantine, from a person who’s living it A germophobe’s guide to a clean phone How to make your own hand sanitizer How to debunk COVID-19 conspiracy theories Virus Science 9 It’s going to take a lot longer to make a COVID-19 vaccine than a treatment The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is exploring at-home COVID-19 tests in Seattle How the coronavirus hitches a ride around your life The US has tested shockingly few people for the new coronavirus Continued travel bans aren’t going to stop spread of the new coronavirus Health care workers are at high risk of catching COVID-19 Stanford group wants to use your computer to help researchers study the coronavirus An experimental treatment for the new coronavirus is being tested in the US To fight the coronavirus, labs are printing its genome What the tech sector is doing 10 Electronics companies are getting gridlocked by coronavirus lockdowns Tech giants will keep paying hourly staff even if they are asked to stay home due to coronavirus Amazon, Google, Facebook, and Microsoft are asking Seattle-based staff to work from home because of coronavirus Postmates says it will start ‘non-contact’ meal deliveries during the coronavirus outbreak Amazon Flex drivers won’t be paid if they have to stay home due to coronavirus, but Uber’s and Lyft’s will Facebook temporarily bans ads for medical face masks to prevent coronavirus exploitation Google and Microsoft are giving away enterprise conferencing tools due to coronavirus Etsy has started cracking down on coronavirus merchandise Amazon has barred a million products for making false coronavirus claims Facebook confirms ban on misleading coronavirus ads Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook