https://www.theverge.com/2020/2/13/21136623/art-club
Arrested Huawei executive hit with new US charges ahead of extradition - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Policy Tech Cybersecurity Arrested Huawei executive hit with new US charges ahead of extradition New, 3 comments Another move against the Chinese equipment manufacturer By Makena Kelly@kellymakena Feb 13, 2020, 3:41pm EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: Arrested Huawei executive hit with new US charges ahead of extradition Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Illustration by Alex Castro / The Verge The US Justice Department indicted both Huawei and its chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou for racketeering and conspiring to steal American trade secrets on Thursday. Meng was arrested in Canada in 2018, and is currently undergoing extradition proceedings that would move her to the US. This latest indictment adds 16 counts of conspiracy to the trade secrets and racketeering charges already levied against her. In its press release, the DOJ accuses Huawei and Meng of nearly 20 years of efforts to steal the intellectual property of US businesses, including “source code and user manuals for internet routers, antenna technology and robot testing technology,” to develop its own business. According to the indictment, Huawei entered into a number of confidential agreements with American companies to obtain the IP. Huawei’s efforts “were successful” The indictment goes on to accuse Huawei of collaborating with countries like North Korea and Iran, which are currently subject to US and European sanctions, and attempting to “conceal the full scope of that involvement.” “Huawei’s efforts to steal trade secrets and other sophisticated U.S. technology were successful,” the Justice Department said in its Thursday press release. “Huawei was able to drastically cut its research and development costs and associated delays, giving the company a significant and unfair competitive advantage.” In a statement obtained by The Verge, Huawei said the charges were without merit. “The ‘racketeering enterprise’ that the government charged today is noting more than contrived repackaging of a handful of civil allegations that are almost 20 years old,” a representative said. “The government will not prevail on these charges, which we will probe to be both unfounded and unfair.” It’s the latest in a series of moves by the US government seeking to push the company’s equipment out of US networks. Earlier this week, The Wall Street Journal reported that US officials believed that Huawei maintained “back door” access in mobile networks that allowed them to spy on American consumers. It’s unclear whether the company has ever used these alleged capabilities, but it hasn’t stopped lawmakers and government officials from increasing sanctions against China and Chinese telecom companies like Huawei and ZTE in the past. Senate Intelligence leaders and China hawks, Sens. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Mark Warner (D-VA), applauded the efforts, saying in a statement, “Huawei’s unlawful business practices are a threat to fair and open markets, as well as to legitimate competition in a tech space that is critical for the global economy.” Update 4:47PM ET: Updated with statement from Huawei. In This Stream Huawei vs. Trump: all the news about the Chinese phone maker’s messy relationship with the US Living a Google-free life with a Huawei phone Arrested Huawei executive hit with new US charges ahead of extradition Feds claim Huawei can snoop on mobile networks View all 96 stories Next Up In Policy Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook