https://www.theverge.com/2020/1/3/21047876/art-club
LG unveils eight ‘Real 8K’ OLED and LCD TVs ahead of CES - The Verge Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes The Verge homepage Follow The Verge online: Follow The Verge on Facebook Follow The Verge on Twitter RSS feed (all stories on The Verge) Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search The Verge main menu Tech Reviews Science Creators Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store More Tech Video Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Tesla AI Cars Cybersecurity Mobile Policy Privacy Scooters All Tech Reviews Phones Laptops Headphones Cameras Tablets Smartwatches Speakers Drones Accessories Buying Guides How-to’s Deals More from Verge Reviews Science Video Space NASA SpaceX Health Energy Environment All Science Creators YouTube Instagram Adobe Kickstarter Tumblr Art Club Cameras Photography What’s in your bag? All Creators Entertainment Film TV Games Fortnite Game of Thrones Books Comics Music All Entertainment Video Features Podcasts Newsletters Store ✕ Filed under: Tech CES 2020 News LG LG unveils eight ‘Real 8K’ OLED and LCD TVs ahead of CES New, 37 comments Featuring Alexa, Google Assistant, HomeKit, and AirPlay 2 By Jon Porter@JonPorty Jan 3, 2020, 5:17am EST Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: LG unveils eight ‘Real 8K’ OLED and LCD TVs ahead of CES Linkedin Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Image: LG LG has announced eight 8K TVs, ahead of CES. There are two OLED models which are 77 and 88-inches big, and six LCDs measuring between 65 and 75-inches. LG is yet to announce pricing or availability information for any of the sets, but it’s keen to emphasize that they’ll all offer “Real 8K,” in what appears to be a shot across the bow at Samsung and its recently announced certification from the 8K Association. The announcement marks a continuation of LG’s proxy war with Samsung over what exactly constitutes an 8K TV. While both companies agree that 8K is a resolution of 7680 horizontal pixels by 4320 vertical pixels, the two companies have different ideas about how these should be measured. LG uses the Consumer Technology Association’s definition, which relies on a measurement called “Contrast Modulation” to define its pixels. Meanwhile, Samsung uses the 8K Association’s definition (an organization which LG is not a member of), which doesn’t list any such requirements. LG’s 8K TV lineup for 2020 consists of eight TVs. Image: LG It’s a very technical distinction, and it doesn’t seem like there’s any conclusive evidence about which is the better approach just yet. Check out John Archer’s in-depth explainer over on Forbes if you want to learn more, but don’t expect this to be the last you’ll hear about this mini format war. Regardless of resolution disagreements, LG’s newly announced TVs should offer much better support for 8K content. The TVs now support HEVC, VP9, and AV1 content natively, which is notable when its previous 8K TV required an external decoder box to decode the YouTube-backed AV1 codec. The TVs are also equipped with HDMI inputs that can handle 60 fps content at 8K resolution. Internally LG’s TVs are equipped with the company’s new Alpha 9 Gen 3 processor, which it says uses deep learning technology to optimize both picture and sound quality. The processor can upscale video to 8K and audio to 5.1 surround sound, and can also recognize faces and text on-screen, tweaking picture quality to improve the appearance of both. Support for Amazon’s Alexa and Google Assistant voice assistants returns from last year, as does HomeKit and AirPlay 2 compatibility. LG also says that the TVs will be upgraded with Alexa far-field voice compatibility in the future, and that the TVs can be used to monitor and control supported IoT devices from their dashboard. Despite the amount of noise being made about the new resolution, LG and Samsung’s disagreement shows that 8K is a technology that’s still in its infancy. There’s not just a lack of native 8K content; key TV manufacturers can’t even agree on the same definition for the new resolution. In This Stream CES 2020: more show than substance at this year’s concept-heavy event Ring adds privacy dashboard to app in response to security concerns LG unveils eight ‘Real 8K’ OLED and LCD TVs ahead of CES Join Vergecast Live at CES 2020 View all 176 stories Next Up In Tech Good Deals Samsung’s Galaxy S10 Plus is discounted for a limited time Plus, deals on console games and Raspberry Pi CBS All Access is offering a free one-month trial, just in time to binge Star Trek: Picard Perfect for your next social distancing TV marathon Sony’s WH-1000XM3 wireless headphones are nearly $100 off at Amazon Plus, some other great deals if you want to have some fun at home More in Good Deals Sign up for the newsletter Processor A newsletter about computers Email (required) By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Notice and European users agree to the data transfer policy. Subscribe Loading comments... Chorus Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Do not sell my info Communications Preferences Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2020 Vox Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved Share this story Twitter Facebook